Source:
https://www.fool.com/earnings/call-transcripts/2023/10/24/microsoft-msft-q1-2024-earnings-call-transcript/
https://www.fool.com/earnings/call-transcripts/2024/01/31/microsoft-msft-q2-2024-earnings-call-transcript/
https://www.microsoft.com/en-us/Investor/earnings/FY-2023-Q3/press-release-webcast
https://www.fool.com/earnings/call-transcripts/2023/07/25/microsoft-msft-q4-2023-earnings-call-transcript/
================================================================
Microsoft FY23 Third Quarter Earnings Conference Call
Brett Iversen, Satya Nadella, Amy Hood
Tuesday, April 25, 2023

BRETT IVERSEN: 

Good afternoon and thank you for joining us today. On the call with me are Satya Nadella, chairman and chief executive officer, Amy Hood, chief financial officer, Alice Jolla, chief accounting officer, and Keith Dolliver, deputy general counsel.

On the Microsoft Investor Relations website, you can find our earnings press release and financial summary slide deck, which is intended to supplement our prepared remarks during today’s call and provides the reconciliation of differences between GAAP and non-GAAP financial measures. Additionally, new this quarter, more detailed outlook slides will be available on the Microsoft Investor Relations website when we provide outlook commentary on today’s call.

On this call we will discuss certain non-GAAP items. The non-GAAP financial measures provided should not be considered as a substitute for or superior to the measures of financial performance prepared in accordance with GAAP. They are included as additional clarifying items to aid investors in further understanding the company's third quarter performance in addition to the impact these items and events have on the financial results. 

All growth comparisons we make on the call today relate to the corresponding period of last year unless otherwise noted. We will also provide growth rates in constant currency, when available, as a framework for assessing how our underlying businesses performed, excluding the effect of foreign currency rate fluctuations. Where growth rates are the same in constant currency, we will refer to the growth rate only. 

We will post our prepared remarks to our website immediately following the call until the complete transcript is available. Today's call is being webcast live and recorded. If you ask a question, it will be included in our live transmission, in the transcript, and in any future use of the recording. You can replay the call and view the transcript on the Microsoft Investor Relations website. 

During this call, we will be making forward-looking statements which are predictions, projections, or other statements about future events. These statements are based on current expectations and assumptions that are subject to risks and uncertainties. Actual results could materially differ because of factors discussed in today's earnings press release, in the comments made during this conference call, and in the risk factor section of our Form 10-K, Forms 10-Q, and other reports and filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission. We do not undertake any duty to update any forward-looking statement. 
And with that, I’ll turn the call over to Satya. 

SATYA NADELLA: Thank you very much, Brett. 
The Microsoft Cloud delivered over $28 billion in quarterly revenue, up 22% and 25% in constant currency, demonstrating our continued leadership across the tech stack.
We continue to focus on three priorities:
First, helping customers use the breadth and depth of the Microsoft Cloud to get the most value out of their digital spend.
Second, investing to lead in the new AI wave across our solution areas, and expanding our TAM.
And, third, driving operating leverage, aligning our cost structure with our revenue growth.
Now, I’ll highlight examples of our progress, starting with infrastructure.
Azure took share, as customers continue to choose our ubiquitous computing fabric – from cloud to edge, especially as every application becomes AI-powered.
We have the most powerful AI infrastructure, and it’s being used by our partner OpenAI, as well as NVIDIA, and leading AI startups like Adept and Inflection to train large models. 
Our Azure OpenAI Service brings together advanced models, including ChatGPT and GPT-4, with the enterprise capabilities of Azure. 
From Coursera and Grammarly, to Mercedes-Benz and Shell, we now have more than 2,500 Azure OpenAI Service customers, up 10X quarter-over-quarter.
Just last week, Epic Systems shared that it was using Azure OpenAI Service to integrate the next generation of AI with its industry-leading EHR software. 
Azure also powers OpenAI API. And we’re pleased to see brands like Shopify and Snap use the API to integrate OpenAI’s models.
More broadly, we continue to see the world’s largest enterprises migrate key workloads to our cloud.
Unilever, for example, went all-in on Azure this quarter, in one of the largest-ever cloud migrations in the consumer goods industry.
IKEA Retail, ING Bank, Rabobank, Telstra, and Wolverine Worldwide all use Azure Arc to run Azure services across on-premises, edge, and multi-cloud environments. We now have more than 15,000 Azure Arc customers, up over 150% year-over-year.
And we’re extending our infrastructure to 5G network edge with Azure for Operators. 
We are the cloud of choice for telcos, and at MWC last month, AT&T, Deutsche Telekom, Singtel, and Telefonica all shared how they are using our infrastructure to modernize and monetize their networks.
Now, on to data. 
Our Intelligent Data Platform brings together databases, analytics, and governance, so organizations can spend more time creating value and less time integrating their data estate. 
Cosmos DB is the go-to database powering the world’s most demanding workloads at any scale.
OpenAI relies on Cosmos DB to dynamically scale their ChatGPT service – one of the fastest-growing consumer apps ever – enabling high reliability and low maintenance.
The NBA uses Cosmos DB to ingest more than 10 million data points per game, helping teams optimize their gameplay.
And, we are taking share with our analytics solutions. Companies like BP, Canadian Tire, Marks & Spencer, and T-Mobile all rely on our end-to-end analytics to improve speed-to-insight. 
Now, on to developers.
From Visual Studio to GitHub, we have the most popular tools to help every developer go from idea to code and code to cloud – all while staying in their flow. 
Today, 76% of the Fortune 500 use GitHub to build, ship, and maintain software.
And with GitHub Copilot, the first at-scale AI developer tool, we’re fundamentally transforming the productivity of every developer, from novices to experts.
In three months since we made Copilot for Business broadly available, over 10,000 organizations have signed up, including the likes of Coca-Cola and GM, as well as Duolingo and Mercado Libre, all of which credit Copilot with increasing the speed for their developers.  
We’re also bringing next generation AI to Power Platform, so anyone can automate workflows, create apps or web pages, build virtual agents, and analyze data using only natural language.
More than 36,000 organizations have already used existing AI-powered capabilities in Power Platform. 
And with our new Copilot in Power Apps, we’re extending these capabilities to end users who can interact with any app through conversation instead of clicks.
All-up, we now have nearly 33 million monthly active users of Power Platform, up nearly 50% year-over-year.
Now, on to business applications.
From customer experience and service, to finance and supply chain, we continue to take share across all categories we serve, as organizations like Asahi, C.H. Robinson, E.ON, Franklin Templeton choose our AI-powered business applications to automate, simulate, and predict every business process and function.
And we’re going further, with Dynamics 365 Copilot, which works across CRM and ERP systems to bring the next generation of AI to employees in every job function, reducing burdensome tasks like manual data entry, content generation, and notetaking.  
Now, on to our industry and cross-industry solutions.
Our Cloud for Sustainability is seeing strong adoption from companies in every industry, including BBC, Nissan, and PCL, as they deliver on their respective environmental commitments.
Our Cloud for Healthcare was front and center at HIMSS last week, as we expanded our offerings for payors and added new AI-powered capabilities for providers.
We showcased the first fully AI-automated clinical documentation application, Nuance DAX Express, which will bring GPT-4 to more than 550,000 existing users of Dragon Medical. 
And, at Hannover-Messe manufacturing trade show, Siemens shared how it will use a Teams app integrated with Azure OpenAI Service to optimize factory workflows.
Now, on to future of work.
Microsoft 365 Copilot combines next generation AI with business data in the Microsoft Graph and Microsoft 365 applications, removing the drudgery and unleashing the creativity of work.
Copilot works alongside users, embedded in the Microsoft 365 applications millions use every day, and it also powers Business Chat, which uses natural language to surface information and insights based on business content and context.
We’ve been encouraged by early feedback, and look forward to bringing these experiences to more users in the coming months.
Teams usage is at an all-time high and surpassed 300 million monthly active users this quarter. 
And we once again took share across every category — from collaboration, to chat, to meetings, to calling — as we add value for existing customers and win new ones like ABN AMRO, Jaguar Land Rover, Mattress Firm, Unisys, and Vodafone. 
We announced a new version of Teams that delivers up to two times faster performance, while using 50% less memory, so customers can collaborate more efficiently and prepare for experiences like Copilot.
Teams is also expanding our TAM. Nearly 60% of our enterprise Teams customers buy Teams Phone, Rooms, or Premium.
Teams Phone is the undisputed market leader in cloud calling, helping our customers reduce costs with a three-year ROI of over 140%.
Teams Rooms revenue more than doubled year-over-year. 
And Teams Premium meets enterprise demand for AI-powered features like intelligent recaps. Now generally available, it’s one of our fastest growing Modern Work products ever, with thousands of paid customers just two months in.
With Microsoft Viva, we’ve created a completely new suite for employee experience. 
Viva brings together goals, communications, learning, workplace analytics, and employee feedback. Across industries, companies like Dell, Mastercard, and SES are using Viva to help their employees thrive.
Just last week, we announced Copilot for Viva, offering leaders a new way to build high-performance teams by prioritizing both productivity and employee engagement.  
And with Viva Sales, we’ve extended the platform to specific job functions, helping sellers apply large language models to their CRM and Microsoft 365 data, so they can automatically generate content, like customer mails.
All this innovation is driving growth across Microsoft 365. Ferrovial, Goldman Sachs, Novo Nordisk, and Rogers all chose E5 to empower their employees with our best-in-class productivity apps, along with advanced security, compliance, voice, and analytics. 
Now, on to Windows.
While the PC market continues to face headwinds, we again saw record monthly active Windows devices, and higher usage, compared to pre-pandemic.
We are also seeing accelerated growth in Windows 11 commercial deployments. Over 90% of the Fortune 500 are currently trialing or have deployed Windows 11.
And with Windows 365 and Azure Virtual Desktop, we continue to transform how employees at companies like Mazda and Nationwide access Windows. 
All-up, over one-third of our enterprise customer base has purchased cloud-delivered Windows to date. And new Windows 365 Frontline extends the power and security of Cloud PCs to shift workers for the first time.
Now, on to security.
Our comprehensive, AI-powered solutions spanning all clouds and all platforms give the agility advantage back to defenders.
Among analysts, we are the leader in more categories than any other provider, and we once again took share across all major categories we serve.
And we continue to introduce new products and functionality to further protect customers.
With Security Copilot, we’re combining large language models with a domain-specific model informed by our threat intelligence and 65 trillion daily security signals, to transform every aspect of the SOC productivity. 
We also added new governance controls and policy protections to better secure identities, along with resources they access. Nearly 720,000 organizations now use Azure Active Directory, up 33% year-over-year.
And, all-up, nearly 600,000 customers now have four or more security workloads, up 35% year-over-year, underscoring our end-to-end differentiation.
EY and Qualcomm, for example, both chose our full security stack to ensure the highest levels of protection and visibility across their organizations.
Now, on to LinkedIn.
We once again saw record engagement, as more than 930 million members turn to the professional social network to connect, learn, sell, and get hired. 
Member growth accelerated for the seventh consecutive quarter, as we expanded to new audiences.
We now have 100 million members in India, up 19%. And as Gen Z enters the workforce, we saw a 73% year-over-year increase in the number of student sign ups.
In this persistently tight labor market, LinkedIn Talent Solutions continues to help hirers connect to job seekers and professionals to build the skills they need to access opportunity. Our hiring business took share for the third consecutive quarter.
The excitement around AI is creating new opportunities across every function, from marketing, sales, and finance, to software development and security. LinkedIn is increasingly where people are going to learn, discuss, and uplevel their skills, with more than 100 AI courses. 
And we’ve introduced new AI-powered features, including writing suggestions for member profiles and job descriptions, and collaborative articles. 
Finally, LinkedIn Marketing Solutions continues to be a leader in B2B digital advertising, helping companies deliver the right message, to the right audience, on a safe, trusted platform.
More broadly, we continue to expand our opportunity in advertising.
Our exclusive partnership with Netflix brings differentiated, premium video content to our ad network.
And, our new Copilot for the web is reshaping daily search and web habits.
Two months since the launch of new Bing and Edge, we’re very encouraged by user feedback and usage patterns.
All-up, Bing has more than 100 million daily active users. 
We are winning new customers on Windows and mobile. Daily installs of the Bing mobile app have grown 4X since launch.  
We’re making progress in share gains. Edge took share for the eighth consecutive quarter, and Bing once again grew share in the United States.
We continue to innovate with first-of-their-kind AI-powered features, including the ability to set the tone of chat and create images from text prompts, powered by Dall-E. Over 200 million images have been created to date. 
And, we see that when people use these new AI features, their engagement with Bing and Edge goes up.
As we look towards a future where chat becomes a new way for people to seek information, consumers have real choice in business model and modalities with Azure-powered chat entrypoints across Bing, Edge, Windows, and OpenAI’s ChatGPT.
We look forward to continuing this journey in what is a generational shift in the largest software category – search.
Now, on to gaming.
We are rapidly executing on our ambition to be the first choice for people to play great games whenever, however, and wherever they want. 
We set third quarter records for monthly active users and monthly active devices. 
Across our content & services business, we are delivering on our commitment to offer gamers more ways to experience the games they love. 
Our revenue from subscriptions reached nearly $1 billion this quarter.
This quarter, we also brought PC Game Pass to 40 new countries, nearly doubling the number of markets we’re available.
Great content remains the flywheel behind our growth. We have now surpassed 500 million lifetime unique users across our first party titles. 
And I’ve never been more excited about our pipeline of games, including the fourth quarter launches of Minecraft Legends and Redfall. 
In closing, we are focused on continuing to raise the bar on our operational excellence and performance, as we innovate to help our customers maximize the value of their existing technology investments and thrive in the new era of AI.
In a few weeks times, we’ll hold our Build conference, and we will share how we are building the most powerful AI platform for developers. And I encourage you to tune in.
I could not be more energized about the opportunities ahead.
And with that, let me turn it over to Amy.
AMY HOOD: Thank you, Satya, and good afternoon everyone. Our third quarter revenue was $52.9 billion, up 7% and 10% in constant currency. Earnings per share was $2.45 and increased 10% and 14% in constant currency.
Our results exceeded expectations, driven by focused execution from our sales teams and partners. In our commercial business, revenue was up 19% in constant currency. We saw better-than-expected renewal strength, including across Microsoft 365 which also benefited Windows Commercial given the higher in-period revenue recognition. In Office 365 standalone products, we saw improvement in new business growth, while growth trends in EMS and Windows Commercial standalone products remained consistent with Q2. In Azure, customers continued to exercise some caution as optimization and new workload trends from the prior quarter continued as expected.
In our consumer business, PC demand was a bit better than we expected, particularly in the commercial segment, which benefited Windows OEM and Surface even as channel inventory levels remain elevated which negatively impacted results. Advertising spend landed in line with our expectations.
We have seen share gains in Azure, Dynamics, Teams, Security, Edge, and Bing as we continue to focus on delivering high value as well as new innovative solutions to our customers, including next generation AI capabilities.
Commercial bookings increased 11% and 12% in constant currency on a strong prior year comparable, with a declining expiry base and 3 points of unfavorable impact from the inclusion of Nuance in the prior year. The better-than-expected result was driven by strong execution across our renewal sales motions mentioned earlier.
Commercial remaining performance obligation increased 26% to $196 billion. Roughly 45% will be recognized in revenue in the next 12 months, up 18% year-over-year. The remaining portion, which will be recognized beyond the next 12 months, increased 34%. And this quarter, our annuity mix was again 96%.
FX impact on total company revenue, segment level revenue, and operating expense growth was as expected. FX decreased COGS growth by 2 points, 1 point favorable to expectations.
Microsoft Cloud revenue was $28.5 billion and grew 22% and 25% in constant currency, slightly ahead of expectations. 
Microsoft Cloud gross margin percentage increased roughly 2 points year-over-year to 72%, a point ahead of expectations driven by cloud engineering efficiencies. Excluding the impact of the change in accounting estimate for useful lives, Microsoft Cloud gross margin percentage decreased slightly driven by lower Azure margin. 
Company gross margin dollars increased 9% and 13% in constant currency, including 2 points due to the change in accounting estimate. Gross margin percentage increased year-over-year to 69%. Excluding the impact of the change in accounting estimate, gross margin percentage decreased slightly driven by a lower mix of OEM revenue.
Operating expense increased 7% and 9% in constant currency, about $300 million lower than expected. Operating expense growth was driven by roughly 2 points from the Nuance and Xandr acquisitions, as well as investments in cloud engineering and LinkedIn. At a total company level, headcount at the end of March was 9% higher than a year ago. 
Operating income increased 10% and 15% in constant currency, including 4 points due to the change in accounting estimate. Operating margins increased roughly 1 point year-over-year to 42%. Excluding the impact of the change in accounting estimate, operating margins decreased slightly and increased slightly in constant currency.
Now to our segment results.
Revenue from Productivity and Business Processes was $17.5 billion and grew 11% and 15% in constant currency, ahead of expectations primarily driven by better-than-expected results in Office commercial.
Office commercial revenue grew 13% and 17% in constant currency. Office 365 commercial revenue increased 14% and 18% in constant currency, slightly better than expected with the strong renewal execution mentioned earlier and E5 momentum. Paid Office 365 commercial seats grew 11% year-over-year to over 382 million, with installed base expansion across all workloads and customer segments. Seat growth was again driven by our small and medium business and frontline worker offerings.
Office commercial licensing declined 1% and increased 5% in constant currency, better than expected with 11 points of benefit from transactional strength in Japan.
Office consumer revenue increased 1% and 4% in constant currency with continued momentum in Microsoft 365 subscriptions, which grew 12% to 65.4 million. 
LinkedIn revenue increased 8% and 10% in constant currency, driven by growth in Talent Solutions. 
Dynamics revenue grew 17% and 21% in constant currency driven by Dynamics 365, which grew 25% and 29% in constant currency with healthy growth across all workloads. 
Segment gross margin dollars increased 14% and 18% in constant currency and gross margin percentage increased roughly 2 points year-over-year. Excluding the impact of the change in accounting estimate, gross margin percentage increased slightly driven by improvements in Office 365, partially offset by sales mix shift to cloud offerings. Operating expenses increased 4% and 5% in constant currency, and operating income increased 20% and 27% in constant currency, including 4 points due to the change in accounting estimate. 
Next, the Intelligent Cloud segment. Revenue was $22.1 billion, increasing 16% and 19% in constant currency, slightly ahead of expectations. 
Overall, server products and cloud services revenue increased 17% and 21% in constant currency. Azure and other cloud services revenue grew 27% and 31% in constant currency.
In our per-user business, the enterprise mobility and security installed base grew 15% to nearly 250 million seats. 
In our on-premises server business, revenue decreased 2% and was relatively unchanged in constant currency, with continued demand for our hybrid offerings, including Windows Server and SQL Server running in multi-cloud environments, offset by transactional licensing.
Enterprise Services revenue grew 6% and 9% in constant currency, with better-than-expected performance across Enterprise Support Services and Microsoft Consulting Services.



Segment gross margin dollars increased 15% and 18% in constant currency and gross margin percentage decreased slightly. Excluding the impact of the change in accounting estimate, gross margin percentage declined roughly 3 points driven by sales mix shift to Azure and the lower Azure margin noted earlier. Operating expenses increased 19% and 20% in constant currency, including roughly 3 points of impact from the Nuance acquisition. Operating income grew 13% and 17% in constant currency, with roughly 6 points from the change in accounting estimate.
Now to More Personal Computing. Revenue was $13.3 billion, decreasing 9% and 7% in constant currency, with better-than-expected results across all businesses. 
Windows OEM revenue decreased 28% year-over-year and Devices revenue decreased 30% and 26% in constant currency, both ahead of expectations. We saw better-than-expected PC demand as noted earlier, particularly in the commercial segment which has higher revenue per license, although results continue to be negatively impacted by elevated channel inventory levels.
Windows commercial products and cloud services revenue increased 14% and 18% in constant currency, significantly ahead of expectations primarily due to the strong renewal execution with higher in-period revenue recognition noted earlier.
Search and news advertising revenue ex-TAC increased 10% and 13% in constant currency, including 2 points from the Xandr acquisition. Results were driven by higher search volume with share gains again this quarter for our Edge browser globally and Bing in the U.S. 
And in Gaming, revenue declined 4% and 1% in constant currency, ahead of expectations. Xbox hardware revenue declined 30% and 28% in constant currency on a high prior year comparable that benefited from increased console supply. Xbox content and services revenue increased 3% and 5% in constant currency driven by better-than-expected monetization in third-party and first-party content, and growth in Xbox Game Pass.
Segment gross margin dollars declined 9% and 5% in constant currency and gross margin percentage increased slightly year-over-year. Operating expenses declined 5% and 3% in constant currency, even with 3 points of growth from the Xandr acquisition. Operating income decreased 12% and 7% in constant currency.
Now back to total company results.
Capital expenditures including finance leases were $7.8 billion to support cloud demand. Cash paid for P, P, and E was $6.6 billion.
Cash flow from operations was $24.4 billion, down 4% year-over-year as strong cloud billings and collections as well as lower supplier payments were more than offset by a tax payment related to the R&D capitalization provision and employee payments primarily related to headcount growth and an increase in employee compensation. Free cash flow was $17.8 billion, down 11% year-over-year. Excluding the impact of this tax payment, cash flow from operations increased 1% and free cash flow declined 5%.
This quarter, other income and expense was $321 million, higher than anticipated driven by net gains on foreign currency remeasurement. 
Our effective tax rate was approximately 19%.
And finally, we returned $9.7 billion to shareholders through share repurchases and dividends.
Now, moving to our Q4 outlook, which unless specifically noted otherwise, is on a US dollar basis. 
My commentary, for next quarter and FY24, does not include any impact from Activision, which we continue to work towards closing in fiscal year 2023, subject to obtaining required regulatory approvals.
Now to FX. Based on current rates, we expect FX to decrease total revenue growth by approximately 2 points with no impact to COGS or operating expense growth. Within the segments, we anticipate roughly 2 points of negative FX impact on revenue growth in Productivity and Business Processes and Intelligent Cloud and roughly 1 point in More Personal Computing.
Overall, our outlook has many of the trends we saw in Q3 continue thru Q4. In our largest quarter of the year, we expect customer demand for our differentiated solutions including our AI platform and consistent execution across the Microsoft Cloud to drive another quarter of healthy revenue growth.
Last year we had our largest commercial bookings quarter ever with a material volume of large, multi-year commitments. On that comparable, we expect growth to be relatively flat. We expect consistent execution across our core annuity sales motions with strong renewals and continued commitments to our platform as we focus on meeting customers’ changing contract needs, which include shorter-term, quick time-to-value contracts in this dynamic environment. Our key focus remains on delivering customer value. 
Microsoft Cloud gross margin percentage should be up roughly 2 points year-over-year driven by the accounting estimate change noted earlier. Excluding that impact, Q4 cloud gross margin percentage will be relatively flat as improvements in Office 365 will offset the lower Azure margin and the impact of scaling our AI infrastructure to meet growing demand. 
We expect capital expenditures to have a material sequential increase on a dollar basis driven by investments in Azure AI infrastructure. Reminder there can be normal quarterly spend variability in the timing of our cloud infrastructure buildout. 
Next to segment guidance. 
In Productivity and Business Processes, we expect revenue to grow between 10 and 12% in constant currency or $17.9 to $18.2 billion US dollars.
In Office Commercial, revenue growth will again be driven by Office 365 with seat growth across customer segments and ARPU growth thru E5. We expect Office 365 revenue growth to be roughly 16% in constant currency. In our on-premises business, we expect revenue to decline in the low 30s. 
In Office consumer, we expect revenue growth in the mid-single digits, driven by Microsoft 365 subscriptions.
For LinkedIn, we expect mid-single digits revenue growth driven by Talent Solutions with continued strong engagement on the platform.
And in Dynamics, we expect revenue growth in the mid to high-teens driven by continued growth in Dynamics 365.
For Intelligent Cloud we expect revenue to grow between 15% and 16% in constant currency or $23.6 to $23.9 billion US dollars.
Revenue will continue to be driven by Azure which, as a reminder, can have quarterly variability primarily from our per-user business and from in-period revenue recognition depending on the mix of contracts. 
In Azure, we expect revenue growth to be 26% to 27% in constant currency, including roughly 1 point from AI services. Growth continues to be driven by our Azure consumption business and we expect the trends from Q3 to continue into Q4 as noted earlier. Our per-user business should continue to benefit from Microsoft 365 suite momentum, though we expect continued moderation in growth rates given the size of the installed base. 
In our on-premises server business, we expect revenue to decline low-single digits as demand for our hybrid solutions, including Windows Server and SQL Server running in multi-cloud environments, will be more than offset by unfavorable FX impact.
And in Enterprise Services, revenue should be relatively unchanged year-over-year as growth in Enterprise Support Services will be offset by a decline in Microsoft Consulting Services. 
In More Personal Computing, we expect revenue of $13.35 to $13.75 billion US dollars. 
PC demand should be similar to Q3 and given channel inventory still remains elevated, our revenue will lag overall market growth as it continues to normalize. Therefore, Windows OEM and Devices revenue should both decline in the low to mid-20s.
In Windows commercial products and cloud services, revenue should decline low to mid-single digits. While we expect healthy annuity billings growth driven by continued customer demand for Microsoft 365 and our advanced security solutions, a reminder that our quarterly revenue growth can have variability primarily from in-period revenue recognition depending on the mix of contracts.
Search and news advertising ex-TAC revenue growth should be approximately 10%, roughly 5 points higher than overall Search and news advertising revenue, driven by growth in first-party revenue that’s similar to Q3.
And in Gaming, we expect revenue growth in the mid to high-single digits. We expect Xbox content and services revenue growth in the low to mid-teens driven by third-party and first-party content as well as Xbox Game Pass. 
Now back to company guidance.
We expect COGS to grow between 3% and 4% in constant currency or $16.8 to $17 billion US dollars and operating expense to grow approximately 2% in constant currency or $15.1 to $15.2 billion US dollars. 
Other income and expense should be roughly $300 million as interest income is expected to more than offset interest expense. As a reminder, we are required to recognize mark-to-market gains or losses on our equity portfolio, which can increase quarterly volatility.
We expect our Q4 effective tax rate to be in line with our full year rate of approximately 19%. 
And finally, as a reminder for Q4 cash flow, we expect to make a $1.3 billion cash tax payment related to the R&D capitalization provision. 
Now I’d like to share some closing thoughts as we look to the next fiscal year.
With our leadership position as we begin this AI era, we remain focused on strategically managing the company to deliver differentiated customer value as well as long-term financial growth and profitability.
As with any significant platform shift, it starts with innovation, and we are excited about the early feedback and demand signal for the AI capabilities we have announced to date. We will continue to invest in our cloud infrastructure, particularly AI-related spend, as we scale with the growing demand driven by customer transformation. And we expect the resulting revenue to grow over time.
As always, we remain committed to aligning costs and revenue growth to deliver disciplined profitability. Therefore, while the scaled capex investments will impact COGS growth, we expect FY24 operating expense growth to remain low. 
As a team, we have continually focused on pivoting our resources aggressively to the future as we execute at a high level in the moment to deliver value to our customers. That balance has enabled the company to successfully lead across a number of platform shifts over a number of decades. Therefore, we are committed to leading the AI platform wave and making the investments to support it.  
With that, let’s go to Q&A. Brett?
BRETT IVERSEN: Thanks, Amy. We’ll now move over to Q&A. Out of respect for others on the call, we request that participants please only ask one question. Joe, can you please repeat your instructions? 
(Operator Direction.)
KEITH WEISS, Morgan Stanley: Excellent. Thank you guys for taking the question, and congratulations on really a fantastic set of results and what we all know to be a still difficult environment out there. I think it really illustrates Microsoft’s advantages, and a lot of these technology innovations that you guys have been talking about. 

I wanted to ask you a question that I get probably more often than anything else, and one that I, frankly, don’t have a good answer to, and that’s around the OpenAI partnership, and particularly the accounting for that partnership. I was hoping you could give us a little bit of color about whether or not revenue is flowing from OpenAI into Microsoft on the CapEx side of the equation, whether there’s any impact, just to give us a better understanding of how the accounting around that relationship is working. 
AMY HOOD: Thanks, Keith. In some ways, let me start by saying it’s a great partnership. We’re proud to have worked together for a number of years, leading to some of the announcements that you’ve heard us make more recently. And we’ve talked about the foundation of our partnership remains that when we both are successful, the other benefits. When we grow, it helps them, and when they grow, it helps us. 
But specifically to your question on how does it show up, it’s easiest in this situation to think about them as a customer of ours, like any other customer who would use the Azure infrastructure and our Azure AI Services in service of supporting their end customers. And so, when they do that, like any other customer who has a commercial relationship with us, we recognize revenue on that behalf. 
That’s probably the simplest frame, Keith, that I hope is helpful. 
KEITH WEISS: Yeah, that’s super helpful. I appreciate that. 
BRETT IVERSEN: Thanks, Keith. Joe, next question, please. 
(Operator Direction.)
MARK MOERDLER, Bernstein: Congratulations on the quarter and the guidance, and thanks for taking my question. I’d like to drill into Azure, and more specifically, Azure IaaS PaaS consumption. IaaS PaaS consumption is really stepped down recently, and it’s important to understand the macro versus an optimization that will rebound, whether it’s going to rebound quickly or is there a more fundamental issue? In other words, is this simply purely macro, and everyone is stepping back a little bit, and they’re going to hit the pedal as soon as this comes back, or is there something more fundamental that is driving corporate maybe to step back and that that slowdown to sustain even when the IT spending rebound? Thank you. 
SATYA NADELLA: Thanks for the question. Maybe I’ll make three comments. And it’s also important, I think, to distinguish between what I would say is macro or absolute performance and relative performance, because I think that’s perhaps a good way to think about how we manage our business. 
First is optimizations do continue. In fact, we are focused on it. We incent our people to help our customers with optimization, because we believe, in the long run, that’s the best way to secure the loyalty and long-term contracts with customers, when they know that they can count on a cloud provider like us to help them continuously optimize their workflow. That’s sort of the fundamental benefit of public cloud, and we’re taking every opportunity to prove that out with customers in real time. 
The second thing I’d say is we do have new workloads started, because if you think about it, during the pandemic, it was all about new workloads and scaling workloads. But pre-pandemic, there was a balance between optimizations and new workloads. What we’re seeing now is the new workloads start, in addition to highly intense optimization driven that we have. 
The third is perhaps more of a relative statement. Because of some of the work we’ve done in AI even in the last couple of quarters, we are now seeing conversations, whether it’s coming to you in just OpenAI’s APIs, right? If you think about the consumer tech companies that are all spinning essentially Azure meters, because they have gone to OpenAI and are using their API. These are not customers of Azure at all. 
Second, even Azure OpenAI API customers are all new and the workload conversations, whether it’s B2C conversations in financial services, or drug discovery on another side, these are all new workloads that we really were not in the game in the past, whereas we now are.

Those are the three comments I would make, both in terms of absolute macro, but more importantly, I think what is our relative market position and how it’s being changed.
AMY HOOD: That’s maybe the one thing I would add to those comments, is we’ve been through almost a year where that pivot that Satya talked about from we’re starting tons of new workloads – we’ll call that the pandemic time – to this transition post, and we’re coming to really the anniversary of that starting. 
And so, to Satya’s point, we’re continuing to incent optimization, but at some point, workloads just can’t be optimized much further. And when you start to anniversary that, you do see that it gets a little bit easier in terms of the comps, year over year. And so, you even see that in a little bit of our guidance, some of that impact from a year-over-year basis.
MARK MOERDLER: That was incredibly helpful. I really do appreciate it. Thank you for the color, and again, congratulations on what’s happening. 
BRETT IVERSEN: Thanks, Mark. Joe, next question, please. 
(Operator Direction.)
BRENT THILL, Jefferies: Thanks. On Copilot monetization, can you just give us a sense of how this shows up, where we’re going to see it? And ultimately, is there a simple price lift that you think you can get through a copilot, say 10%, 20%, 30% above where you saw the regular components of the suite, or is it too hard to factor in? Thank you.
SATYA NADELLA: I mean, overall, we do plan to monetize a separate set of meters across all of the tech stack, whether they’re consumption meters or per-user subscriptions. The copilot that’s priced, and it is there, is GitHub Copilot. That’s a good example of incrementally how we monetize the price lists out there, and others are to be priced, because we are in preview mode. But you can expect us to do what we’ve done with GitHub Copilot pretty much across the board. 
AMY HOOD: Yeah, Brent, the best way of thinking about this is when we believe we’re adding a lot of value, and frankly, that’s what the copilots are doing and some productivity improvement, you can expect that we will have a list price for those. And you’ll be able to look at that as we get to release. And to Satya’s point, GitHub Copilot is a great example. 
BRENT THILL: Thanks. 
BRETT IVERSEN: Thanks, Brent. Joe, we have the next question, please. 
(Operator Direction.)
RAIMO LENSCHOW, Barclays: Thank you. Congrats from me as well. And just staying on the AI theme and more thinking about the gross margin impact on Azure, can you just, Satya, maybe talk a little bit about how you see the cost of compute for AI workloads versus kind of the classic workloads? And how do you think that will evolve over time? Thank you.
SATYA NADELLA: Yeah, a couple of things. One is clearly, the accelerated compute is what gets used to drive AI. And the thing that we are very, very focused on is to make sure that we get very efficient in the usage of those resources. If you think about sort of what a hyperscaler does is not just rack and stack sort of hardware. They use software to optimize the performance of a given workload, and in fact heterogeneous workloads on a given set of hardware. 
And so, we have many knobs that will continue to drive optimization across it. And you see it even for a given generation of a large model, where we start with the cost footprint to where we end in the cost footprint, even in a period of a quarter, changes. So, you can expect us to do what we have done over the decade plus the public cloud to bring the benefits of, I would say, continuous optimization of our COGS to a diverse set of workloads. 
The other thing I would mention is that there are a lot of workloads now. One of the reasons why we got together with OpenAI primarily was we came out and said this type of workload, whether it’s a training or an inference workload, is going to be much more generally relevant for us, not just in the context of AI. And so, you can see, I’ll supply in other contexts as well. 
AMY HOOD: And Raimo, we talked a bit about this when we talked about the new Edge and the new Bing with analysts. And I think one of the important things to keep in mind, which Satya is pointing to, is that it’s not really just the cost of Azure and the ability to optimize across the Azure workloads. It’s that really, even our first-party workloads and apps that are built are built on the same platform. 
And we’re able, because we are a hyperscaler and because we have a large commercial cloud first party, as well as consumer apps like Bing that are first party, we’re able to take advantage of that and GPU utilization, AI services utilization across the stack. And so, it’s not just sort of where Satya wanted to see even a broader benefit of being a hyperscaler. 
RAIMO LENSCHOW: Thank you. 
BRETT IVERSEN: Thanks, Raimo. Joe, next question, please. 
KEITH BACHMAN, BMO: Good afternoon. Good evening. Thank you for taking the question. Amy, I wanted to address this to you, if I could. On your prepared remarks, you commented that you thought that operating expense growth would be lower. I was hoping to just maybe flush that out with some broader comments. Excuse me. 
Could you talk about how you see any kind of directional color on how you see gross margins evolving, given mix, and particularly supporting generative AI, and/or any other comments that might help shape our thinking as we begin to look at the operating margin for the next fiscal year? Thank you.
AMY HOOD: Thanks, Keith. And this is probably a good opportunity to explain a bit about how I think about where we are, which is you look at all of the businesses we’re in, and we look about our competitiveness in those businesses. And this is where Satya started to comment a bit about our relative performance versus absolute. And I’ll tell you that the energy and focus we put right now is on relative performance and share gains. 
Right now, we have the largest commercial cloud with increasing commitments by customers, with new workloads, new TAM opportunities that Satya’s talking about with customers. And our focus is going to be and will be on continuing to take a growing share of that, while we continue to focus on our customers’ success and getting a ton of value out of what we are selling, whether that’s the E5 product of Microsoft 365, whether that’s Windows 365 to help. Maybe it’s on compute costs and PC cost, whether it’s working across the Azure stack. 
And so, with that opportunity plus in our consumer business, the largest number of active devices we’ve had in Windows that are still being used more, being able to focus on Edge share, and Bing share and gaming, bringing it to the PC as well as across to mobile, these are the opportunities that we focus on, as we think about next year.
And so, if we feel like, and I do, that we are well positioned to continue to take share in so many key places, then I say great. And we want to be able to focus on investing in AI, which I talked about. We’ll increase COGS growth, but we’re committed to making sure we have healthy profitability by keeping operating expenses low. 
And so, what really this past year has been about, but really what Q3 starts to show is our willingness to pivot to the future, to make sure we can keep all those commitments that Satya listed. While I know that’s not giving specificity, it is in fact how we think about long-term success, is being well-positioned in big markets, taking share in those markets, committing to make sure we’re going to lead this wave, staying focused on gross margin improvements where we can. Some of them will come in AI over time, given our commitment to the buildout. We will charge for those AI capabilities, and then ultimately, we’ll deliver operating profit. 
SATYA NADELLA: Yeah. I mean, just to add to it, during these periods of transition, the way I think, as shareholders, you may want to look at is what’s the opportunity set ahead when we have a differentiated play to go after that opportunity set, which we believe we have, both the opportunity set in terms of TAM is bigger, and our differentiation at the very start of a cycle, we feel we have a good lead, and we have differentiated offerings up and down the stack. 
And so, therefore, that’s the sort of approach we’re going to take, which is how do we maximize the return of that starting position for you all, as shareholders, long term? That’s sort of where we look at it. And we’ll manage the P&L carefully, driving operating leverage in a disciplined way, but not being shy of investing where we need to invest, in order to grab the long-term opportunity. 
And so, obviously we will see share gains first, usage first, then GM, then OPInc, right, like a classic P&L flow, but we feel good about our position. 
KEITH BACHMAN: All right, many thanks for the answer. 
BRETT IVERSEN: Thanks, Keith. Joe, next question, please. 
KARL KEIRSTEAD, UBS: Thanks. We’ve had a lot of questions on AI and Azure, so maybe just to round it out, just on the Office 365 business, Amy, 16% constant currency guide for June, not really seeing much seat degradation despite obviously a tight labor market. So, it’s proven to be very resilient. 
Could you just unpack the sensitivity to that headcount reduction, given that across your customer base, at least slower rate of hiring, just given that this is an enormous seat based business, it doesn’t seem to be showing up? Maybe you could just help us understand what’s driving that continued seat growth and how durable that is.
AMY HOOD: Yeah. Thanks, Karl. I think I would step back and say we have seen, I mean, the Office 365 suite, but broadly, the Microsoft 365 suite adds a ton of value for users. And so, if you think about the users and on the global base, we’ve been able to add users, which you continue to see, we still have in the frontline scenario and an SMB opportunity to continue to grow. And in the enterprise, where we are a basic productivity tool, the labor market is still tight in those places. And we continue to see customers committed to the value they’re getting. 
And so, this is not something that I think our focus has really been on continuing to get healthy renewals, continuing to add new products and renewal where it makes sense to save customers money and increase value. And so, I think that’s the story of the resilience you’re seeing. And, of course, we did have a good E5 quarter, which you’re starting to see, and it helps on RPU. 
BRETT IVERSEN: Thanks, Karl. Joe, next question, please. 
RISHI JALURIA, RBC: Wonderful. Hi, Satya. Hi, Amy. Thanks so much for taking my question. Nice to see continued resilience in the business. I wanted to get back to the topic of AI, but think maybe a little bit longer term. How are you thinking about the potential for regulation around AI, some of the concerns around data, and customer privacy and governance? And what do you think you can do to maybe quell some of those fears that governments, and customers and organizations have around that? Thanks. 
SATYA NADELLA: Yeah. Thanks, Rishi, for the question. Overall, we’ve taken the approach that we are not waiting for regulation to show up. We are taking an approach where the unintended consequences of any new technology is something that, from day one, we think about as first class, and build into our engineering process all the safeguards. 
For example, in 2016 is when we put out the AI principles. We translated the AI principles into a set of internal standards that then are further translated into an implementation process, that then we hold ourselves to internal audit, essentially. That’s the framework we have. 
We have a Chief AI Officer who is sort of responsible for both thinking of what the standards are, and then the people who even help us internally audit our following of the process. And so, we feel very good in terms of us being able to create trust in the systems we put out there. 
And so, we will obviously engage with any regulation that comes up in any jurisdiction. But quite honestly, we think that the more there is any form of trust as a differentiated position in the AI, I think we stand to gain from that.
RISHI JALURIA: All right. Wonderful. Thank you so much. 
BRETT IVERSEN: Thanks, Rishi. Joe, we have time for one last question. 
MICHAEL TURRIN, Wells Fargo: Hey, great. Thanks. I appreciate you squeezing me in. I want to ask a question on the consolidation play that Microsoft is positioned for, given that’s something we hear clearly top of mind for IP decision makers currently. You have clear plays across security infrastructure apps in other areas. So, it would just be great to hear your view on the Microsoft consolidation playbook in the current environment, and if there are certain areas you’re particularly focused on or seeing the most traction around. Thank you. 
SATYA NADELLA: Yeah. I mean, I’ll start, and then, Amy, you can add. 
I think Amy referenced this in the context of Microsoft 365 and Office 365, but fundamentally, what we’re focused on is making sure that the customers are able to derive the value out of our offerings, whether it’s the Microsoft 365 suite value, which is significant, whether it’s E3 or E5. And we want to make sure that they’re getting deployed, they’re getting used. And that’s obviously going to lead to our share gains in many cases. 
Same thing in security. That’s a place where this quarter, you saw some good results from us. And same all up and down the stack across Azure. 
When you think about AI, the anatomy of an AI application is not just an AI model. In fact, ChatGPT itself is a great example. ChatGPT, for example, uses Cosmos DB as their core database. And so, therefore, we want to make sure that our services, as they are competitive, get used together, whether it’s the IaaS layer, or the PaaS layer, or the SaaS layer.
AMY HOOD: And maybe one thing I would add, Michael, is that I know the question is consolidation, but another aspect of that is that some of the new business process automation work that’s going to get done, whether that’s the Dynamics workloads that we’ve talked about, it also will benefit from having the AI services available in Azure, from having the core Azure capabilities, as well actually some front end stuff that people are buying in Microsoft 365 to close these loops in a new way. 
And so, I think maybe it’s not the traditional definition of consolidation, but when people look and say, what vendor adds a lot of value and has the tools that we need, and in many instances already own, to be able to do this business process work, I think we have a great, great value, and frankly, probably leading tools in almost every vertical. 
MICHAEL TURRIN: Great, thank you.
BRETT IVERSEN: Thanks, Michael. That wraps up the Q&A portion of today’s earnings call. Thank you for joining us today, and we look forward to speaking with all of you soon. 
AMY HOOD: Thank you.
SATYA NADELLA: Thank you, all. Thanks so much.

END
================================================================================
MSFT earnings call for the period ending June 30, 2023.
Logo of jester cap with thought bubble.
IMAGE SOURCE: THE MOTLEY FOOL.

Microsoft (MSFT -0.04%)
Q4 2023 Earnings Call
Jul 25, 2023, 5:30 p.m. ET

Contents:
Prepared Remarks
Questions and Answers
Call Participants
Prepared Remarks:

Operator

Greetings, and welcome to the Microsoft fiscal year 2023 fourth quarter earnings conference call. At this time, all participants are in a listen-only mode. A question-and-answer session will follow the formal presentation. [Operator instructions] As a reminder, this conference is being recorded.

I would now like to turn the conference over to your host, Brett Iversen, vice president of investor relations. Mr. Iversen, please go ahead.

Brett Iversen -- General Manager, Investor Relations

Good afternoon, and thank you for joining us today. On the call with me are Satya Nadella, chairman and chief executive officer; Amy Hood, chief financial officer; Alice Jolla, chief accounting officer; and Keith Dolliver, deputy general counsel. On the Microsoft Investor Relations website, you can find our earnings press release and financial summary slide deck, which is intended to supplement our prepared remarks during today's call and provides the reconciliation of differences between GAAP and non-GAAP financial measures. More detailed outlook slides will be available on the Microsoft Investor Relations website when we provide outlook commentary on today's call.

On this call, we will discuss certain non-GAAP items. The non-GAAP financial measures provided should not be considered as a substitute for or superior to the measures of financial performance prepared in accordance with GAAP. They are included as additional clarifying items to aid investors in further understanding the company's fourth-quarter performance in addition to the impact these items and events have on the financial results. All growth comparisons we make on the call today relate to the corresponding period of last year unless otherwise noted.

10 stocks we like better than Microsoft
When our award-winning analyst team has a stock tip, it can pay to listen. After all, the newsletter they have run for over a decade, Motley Fool Stock Advisor, has tripled the market.* 

They just revealed what they believe are the ten best stocks for investors to buy right now… and Microsoft wasn't one of them! That's right -- they think these 10 stocks are even better buys.

See the 10 stocks

*Stock Advisor returns as of February 5, 2024

We'll also provide growth rates in constant currency when available as a framework for assessing how our underlying businesses performed, excluding the effect of foreign currency rate fluctuations. Where growth rates are the same in constant currency, we will refer to the growth rate only. We will post our prepared remarks to our website immediately following the call until the complete transcript is available. Today's call is being webcast live and recorded.

If you ask a question, it will be included in our live transmission, in the transcript, and in any future use of the recording. You can replay the call and view the transcript on the Microsoft Investor Relations website. During this call, we'll be making forward-looking statements, which are predictions, projections, or other statements about future events. These statements are based on current expectations and assumptions that are subject to risks and uncertainties.

Actual results could materially differ because of factors discussed in today's earnings press release, in the comments made during this conference call, and in the Risk Factors section of our Form 10-K, Forms 10-Q, and other reports and filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission. We do not undertake any duty to update any forward-looking statement. And with that, I'll turn the call over to Satya.

Satya Nadella -- Chief Executive Officer

Thank you very much, Brett. We had a solid close to our fiscal year. The Microsoft Cloud surpassed $110 billion in annual revenue, up 27% in constant currency with Azure all up accounting for more than 50% of the total for the first time. Every customer I speak with is asking not only how but how fast they can apply next-generation AI to address the biggest opportunities and challenges they face and to do so safely and responsibly.

To that end, we remain focused on three key priorities: first, helping customers use the breadth and depth of Microsoft Cloud to get the most value on to their spend; second, investing to lead in the new AI platform shift by infusing AI across every layer of the tech stack; and third, driving operating leverage. Now, I'll highlight examples of our progress, starting with infrastructure. Azure continues to take share as customers migrate their existing workloads and invest in new ones. We continue to see more cloud migrations as it remains early when it comes to long-term cloud opportunity.

We are also seeing increasing momentum with Azure Arc, which now has 18,000 customers, up 150% year over year, including Carnival Corp., Domino's, Thermo Fisher. And Azure AI is ushering in new born-in-the-cloud AI-first workloads with the best selection of frontier and open models, including Meta's recent announcements supporting Llama on Azure and Windows, as well as OpenAI. We have great momentum across Azure OpenAI Service. More than 11,000 organizations across industries, including IKEA, Volvo Group, Zurich Insurance, as well as digital natives like FlipKart, Humane, Kahoot, Miro, Typeface use the service.

That's nearly 100 new customers added every day this quarter. Mercedes-Benz, for example, is bringing ChatGPT via Azure OpenAI to more than 900,000 vehicles in the United States, making its in-car voice assistant more intuitive. And Moody's built its own internal Copilot to improve productivity of its 14,000 employees. We're also partnering broadly to scale this next generation of AI to more customers.

Snowflake, for example, will increase its Azure spend as it builds new integrations with Azure OpenAI. And KPMG has announced a multibillion-dollar commitment to our cloud and AI services to transform professional services. Now, on to data. Every AI app starts with data and having a comprehensive data and analytics platform is more important than ever.

Our intelligent data platform brings together operational databases, analytics, and governance so organizations can spend more time creating value and less time integrating their data estate. We introduced Microsoft Fabric this quarter, which unifies compute storage and governance with a disruptive business model. One month in, we are encouraged by early interest and usage. Over 8,000 customers have signed up to trial the service and are actively using it, and over 50% are using four or more workloads.

All up, we once again took share with our analytics solutions with customers like Bridgestone, Chevron, and Equinor turning to our stack. Now, on to developers. New Azure AI Studio is becoming the tool of choice for AI development in this new era, helping organizations ground, fine-tune, evaluate, and deploy models and do so responsibly. VS Code and GitHub Copilot are category-leading products when it comes to how developers code every day.

Nearly 90% of GitHub Copilot sign-ups are self-service, indicating strong organic interest and pull-through. More than 27,000 organizations, up 2x quarter over quarter, have chosen GitHub Copilot for Business to increase the productivity of their developers, including Airbnb, Dell, and Scandinavian Airlines. We're also applying AI across low-code, no-code toolchain to help domain experts, automate workflows, create apps and web pages, build virtual agents, or analyze data using just natural language. Copilot in Power BI combines the power of large language models with an organization's data to generate insights faster, and Copilot in Power Pages makes it easier to create secure low-code business websites.

One of our tools that's really taken off is Copilot in Power Virtual Agents, which is delivering one of the biggest benefits of this new area of AI, helping customer service agents be significantly more productive. HP and Virgin Money, for example, have both built custom chatbots with Copilot and Power Virtual Agents that were trained to answer complex customer inquiries. All up, more than 63,000 organizations have used AI-powered capabilities in Power Platform, up 75% quarter over quarter. Finally, Power Automate now has 10 million monthly active users at companies like Jaguar Land Rover, Repsol, Rolls-Royce, up 55% year over year.

And we're going further with new process mining capabilities in Power Automate, which are helping organizations optimize business processes and, in turn, build their AI advantage. Now, on to business applications. We are taking share in every category as we help organizations across the private and public sector from Avis to Albertsons to Breville to Equinox and the U.S. Department of Veterans Affairs transform their mission-critical business processes.

All up, Dynamics surpassed $5 billion in revenue over the past fiscal year with our customer experience, service and finance, and supply chain businesses all surpassing $1 billion in annual sales. This quarter, we brought Dynamics 365 Copilots to our ERP portfolio, including finance, project operations, and supply management. And with our new Microsoft Sales Copilot, sellers can ground their customer interactions with data from CRM systems, including both Salesforce and Dynamics, to personalize customer interactions and close more deals. Now, on to our industry and cross-industry clouds.

Our Microsoft Cloud for Sustainability is helping customers like Costco, Land O'Lakes and REI take action to meet their environmental goals. And in healthcare, hundreds of organizations are using our Nuance DAX Ambient Intelligence solution to automatically document patient encounters at the point of care. This quarter, we expanded our collaboration with Epic to integrate Nuance DAX Express directly into their industry-leading EHR system. Now, on to future of work.

Across industries, customers like Ahold Delhaize, Deutsche Bank, Novartis, Siemens, Wells Fargo are choosing Microsoft 365 premium offerings for differentiated security, compliance, voice, and analytics value. And four months ago, we introduced a new pillar of customer value with Microsoft 365 Copilot. We are now rolling out Microsoft 365 Copilot to 600 paid customers through our early access program, and feedback from organizations like Emirates NBD, General Motors, Goodyear, and Lumen is that it's a game changer for employee productivity. We continue to build momentum in Microsoft Teams across collaboration, chat, meetings, and calling.

We now have more than 1,900 apps in Teams App Store, and companies in every industry from British Airways to Dentsu to Eli Lilly and Manulife have built over 145,000 custom line of business apps, bringing business process directly into the flow of work. Five months in, Teams Premium has already surpassed 600,000 seats as companies like BNY Mellon, Clifford Chance, PepsiCo, and Starbucks chose the add-on for advanced features like end-to-end encryption and real-time translation. Teams Phone is the market leader in cloud calling with more than 17 million PSTN users, up 45% year over year. Teams Room is used by more than 70% of the Fortune 500, including L'Oreal, United Airlines, and U.S.

Bank, and revenue more than doubled year over year this quarter. And with Microsoft Viva, we are creating a new market category for employee experience. Viva now has 35 million monthly active users as companies like CBRE, Fujitsu, and Unisys turn to the platform to build data-driven high-performance organizations. Now, on to Windows.

The number of devices running Windows 11 has more than doubled in the last year, and we are seeing continued growth in Windows 11 commercial deployments worldwide by companies like AT&T, Cronus, and Westpac. We are also transforming how Windows is experienced and managed for enterprise customers with Azure Virtual Desktop and Windows 365, which together surpassed $1 billion in revenue for the first time over the past 12 months. Enbridge, Eurowings, Marriott International, and TD Bank Group, for example, all chose cloud-delivered Windows this quarter. Windows 11 is also rapidly becoming a powerful new canvas in this new era of AI.

We introduced Windows Copilot this quarter, helping every Windows 11 user become a power user with just natural language, and are excited to put it in the hands of more people in the coming months. Now, on to security. More than 1 million organizations now count on our comprehensive AI-powered solutions to protect their digital estate across cloud and endpoint platforms, up 26% year over year. More than 60%, including leading enterprises like ABN AMRO, Dow, and Heineken, use four or more of our security products, up 33% year over year, underscoring our end-to-end differentiation.

And we once again took share across all major categories we serve as we innovate to protect customers. In identity, Microsoft Entra ID has more than 610 million monthly active users, and we are adding SSE to our Entra product family to complement our leading identity solution and secure access to any app or resource from anywhere. Finally, our Security Copilot, the first product to apply this next generation of AI to SecOps, will be available to customers via paid early access program this fall. Now, on to LinkedIn.

LinkedIn's revenue surpassed $15 billion for the first time this fiscal year, and membership growth has now accelerated for eight quarters in a row, a testament to how mission-critical the platform has become to help more than 950 million members connect, learn, sell, and get hired. Our Talent Solutions business surpassed $7 billion in revenue for the first time over the past 12 months, and our hiring business took share for the fourth consecutive quarter. We continue to use AI to help our members and customers connect to opportunities and tap into experiences of experts on the platform. Our AI-powered collaborative articles are now the fastest-growing traffic driver in LinkedIn.

And finally, we are helping LinkedIn stay trusted and authentic. More than 7 million members have verified who they are or where they work, many using new integrations with Microsoft Entra, as well as Clear and HyperVerge. Now, on to search, advertising, and news. While it's early in our journey, we are reshaping daily search and web habits with our Copilot for the Web.

This quarter, we introduced new AI-powered features, including multimodal capabilities with Visual Search and Bing Chat. We are expanding to businesses with Bing Chat Enterprise, which offers commercial data protection, providing an easy on-ramp for any organization looking to get the benefit of this next generation of AI today. Bing is also the default search experience for OpenAI's ChatGPT, bringing timelier answers with links to our reputable sources to ChatGPT users. To date, Bing users have engaged in more than 1 billion chats and created more than 750 million images with Bing Image Creator, and Microsoft Edge took share for the ninth consecutive quarter.

More broadly, we are growing our ad network, which is now available in 187 markets spanning search, display, native, retail, media, video, and connected TV. Now, on to gaming. Last week, we extended our Activision Blizzard merger agreement deadline to October. We continue to work through the regulatory approval process and remain confident about getting the deal done.

We are committed to bringing more games to more players everywhere. Great content is key to our approach and our pipeline has never been stronger. We announced our most ambitious lineup of games ever at our showcase last month, including 21 titles that will be available via Xbox Game Pass. And we're looking forward to the release of Starfield this fall, Bethesda's first new universe in 25 years.

All up, we set new fourth-quarter highs for monthly active users, driven by strength of console, as well as monthly active devices. And we saw record fourth quarter engagement across Game Pass with hours played up 22% year over year. And just last week, we announced Game Pass Call, bringing together online play from Xbox Live and content from Game Pass into a single offering. In closing, I'm energized about the opportunities ahead.

We continue to innovate across the tech stack to help our customers thrive in the new era of AI. And with that, let me turn it over to Amy.

Amy Hood -- Chief Financial Officer

Thank you, Satya, and good afternoon, everyone. This quarter, revenue was $56.2 billion, up 8% and 10% in constant currency. Earnings per share was $2.69 and increased 21% and 23% in constant currency. In our largest quarter of the year, results exceeded expectations with focused execution by our sales and partner teams.

These execution efforts led to share gains again this quarter in Azure, Dynamics, Security, and Edge. In our commercial business, we continued to see healthy renewal strength, which includes our upsell and attach motions, particularly with Microsoft 365 E5. Growth of new business continued to be moderated for products sold outside the Microsoft 365 suite, including stand-alone Office 365, EMS, and Windows Commercial products. As expected in Azure, we saw a continuation of the optimization and new workload trends from the prior quarter.

In our consumer business, the PC market overall was in line with expectations, although the early timing of back-to-school inventory builds benefited Windows OEM. Advertising spend was slightly lower than anticipated, which impacted search and news advertising and LinkedIn Marketing Solutions. Commercial bookings decreased 2% and 1% in constant currency, in line with expectations against the prior-year comparable that was our largest commercial bookings quarter ever. In addition to the healthy execution across our renewal sales motions mentioned earlier, we saw a record number of $10 million-plus contracts for both Azure and Microsoft 365.

And the average annualized value for our large long-term Azure contracts was the highest it's ever been, driven by customer demand for our innovative cloud solutions today, as well as interest in AI opportunities ahead. Commercial remaining performance obligation increased 19% and 18% in constant currency to $224 billion. Roughly 45% will be recognized in revenue in the next 12 months, up 13% year over year. The remaining portion, which we recognized beyond the next 12 months increased 22%.

And this quarter, our annuity mix increased to 97%. FX impact on total company revenue, segment-level revenue, and operating expense growth was as expected. FX decreased COGS growth by one point, one point favorable to expectations. Microsoft Cloud revenue was $30.3 billion and grew 21% and 23% in constant currency, slightly ahead of expectations.

Microsoft Cloud gross margin percentage increased roughly three points year over year to 72%, also slightly ahead of expectations. Excluding the impact of the change in accounting estimate for useful lives, Microsoft Cloud gross margin percentage increased slightly, driven by improvements in Office 365, partially offset by lower Azure margin and the impact of scaling our AI infrastructure to meet the growing demand. Company gross margin dollars increased 11% and 13% in constant currency, including two points due to the change in accounting estimate. Gross margin percentage increased year over year to 70%.

Excluding the impact of the change in accounting estimate, gross margin percentage increased slightly, driven by improvements in Office 365. Operating expense increased 2%, in line with expectations as savings across the company from our focus on prioritization and efficiency were offset by the charge related to the Irish Data Protection Commission matter. At a total company level, head count at the end of June was flat compared to a year ago. Operating income increased 18% and 21% in constant currency, including four points due to the change in accounting estimate.

Operating margins increased roughly four points year over year to 43%. Excluding the impact of the change in accounting estimate, operating margins increased roughly two points, driven by improved operating leverage through disciplined cost management. Now, to our segment results. Revenue from Productivity and Business Processes was $18.3 billion and grew 10% and 12% in constant currency, ahead of expectations with better-than-expected results in Office Commercial partially offset by LinkedIn.

Office Commercial revenue grew 12% and 14% in constant currency. Office 365 Commercial revenue increased 15% and 17% in constant currency, a bit better than expected with particular strength in E5 upsell renewal noted earlier. Paid Office 365 Commercial seats grew 11% year over year with installed base expansion across all workloads and customer segments. Seat growth was again driven by our small and medium business and frontline worker offerings.

Office Commercial licensing declined 20% and 18% in constant currency with better-than-expected transactional purchasing. Office Consumer revenue increased 3% and 6% in constant currency with continued momentum in Microsoft 365 subscriptions, which grew 12% to $67 million. LinkedIn revenue increased 5% and 7% in constant currency, driven by growth in Talent Solutions, with some continued bookings impact from the weaker hiring environment in key verticals. Growth was partially offset by a decline in Marketing Solutions due to the lower ad spend noted earlier.

Dynamics revenue grew 19% and 21% in constant currency, driven by Dynamics 365, which grew 26% and 28% in constant currency, with continued healthy growth across all workloads. Segment gross margin dollars increased 14% and 16% in constant currency, and gross margin percentage increased roughly three points year over year. Excluding the impact of the change in accounting estimate, gross margin percentage increased roughly one point, driven by improvements in Office 365. Operating expenses decreased slightly, and operating income increased 25% and 29% in constant currency, including three points due to the change in accounting estimate.

Next, the Intelligent Cloud segment. Revenue was $24 billion, increasing 15% and 17% in constant currency, slightly ahead of expectations. Overall, server products and cloud services revenue increased 17% and 18% in constant currency. Azure and other cloud services revenue grew 26% and 27% in constant currency, including roughly one point from AI services as expected.

In our per-user business, the Enterprise Mobility and Security installed base grew 11% to over 256 million seats with impact from the continued growth trends in new business noted earlier. In our on-premises server business, revenue decreased 1% and was relatively unchanged in constant currency, driven by a slight decrease in new annuity contracts, which carry higher in-period revenue recognition. Enterprise Services revenue grew 4% and 5% in constant currency with better-than-expected performance across enterprise support services and industry solutions. Segment gross margin dollars increased 16% and 17% in constant currency, and gross margin percentage increased slightly.

Excluding the impact of the change in accounting estimate, gross margin percentage declined roughly two points, driven by sales mix shift to Azure and the lower Azure margin noted earlier. Operating expenses increased 10%. Operating income grew 20% and 22% in constant currency with roughly six points from the change in accounting estimate. Now, to More Personal Computing.

Revenue was $13.9 billion, decreasing 4% and 3% in constant currency, above expectations, driven by better-than-expected performance in Windows, partially offset by gaming. Windows OEM revenue decreased 12% year over year, ahead of expectations due to seven points of benefit from early back-to-school inventory builds, while the overall PC market was as expected. Devices revenue decreased 20% and 18% in constant currency, roughly in line with expectations. Windows Commercial products and cloud services revenue increased 2% and 3% in constant currency, ahead of expectations due to the renewal strength noted earlier, even with the moderated growth of new business and stand-alone offerings.

Search and news advertising revenue ex-TAC increased 8%, a bit behind expectations due to lower ad spend noted earlier. Higher search volumes, share gains again this quarter for our Edge browser and the benefit from the Xandr acquisition were partially offset by the impact from third-party partnerships. And in gaming, revenue increased 1% and 2% in constant currency, lower than expected due to weakness in first-party and third-party content performance. Xbox content and services revenue increased 5% and 6% in constant currency and Xbox hardware revenue declined 13%.

Segment gross margin dollars declined 2% and were relatively unchanged in constant currency, and gross margin percentage increased roughly one point year over year, driven by sales mix shift to higher-margin businesses. Operating expenses declined 9% and 8% in constant currency. Operating income increased 4% and 6% in constant currency. Now, back to total company results.

Capital expenditures, including finance leases, were $10.7 billion to support cloud demand, including investments in AI infrastructure. Cash paid for PP&E was $8.9 billion. Cash flow from operations was $28.8 billion, up 17% year over year as strong cloud billings and collections were partially offset by a tax payment related to the R&D capitalization provision. Free cash flow was $19.8 billion, up 12% year over year.

Excluding the impact of this tax payment, cash flow from operations increased 22% and free cash flow increased 19%. This quarter, other income and expense was $473 million, higher than anticipated, driven by net gains on foreign currency remeasurement. Our effective tax rate was approximately 19%. And finally, we returned $9.7 billion to shareholders through share repurchases and dividends, bringing our total cash returned to our shareholders to over $38 billion for the full fiscal year.

Now, let's turn to next fiscal year and start with a few reminders. First, the change in accounting estimate for the useful life of server and network equipment resulted in $3.7 billion of depreciation expense shifting from FY '23 to future periods. Our FY '23 operating income and margins benefited from this change in accounting estimate and that will be a headwind to growth in FY '24 as the benefit reduces to $2.1 billion. Next, my outlook commentary for both the full year and next quarter is on a U.S.

dollar basis unless specifically noted otherwise. And my outlook does not include any impact from the Activision acquisition, which we continue to work toward closing, subject to obtaining required regulatory approvals. Now, for some thoughts on the full year of FY '24. With the weaker U.S.

dollar and assuming current rates remain stable, we expect FX to increase full-year revenue growth by approximately one point with no impact to COGS or operating expense growth. The impact in H1 is expected to be greater than H2. At a total company level, revenue growth from our Commercial business will continue to be driven by the Microsoft Cloud and will again outpace the growth from our Consumer business. Even with strong demand and a leadership position, growth from our AI services will be gradual as Azure AI scales and our Copilots reach general availability dates.

So, for FY '24, the impact will be weighted toward H2. To support our Microsoft Cloud growth and demand for our AI platform, we will accelerate investment in our cloud infrastructure. We expect capital expenditures to increase sequentially each quarter through the year as we scale to meet demand signals. We are committed to driving operating leverage and therefore, we will manage our total cost growth across COGS and operating expense in line with the demand signals we see, as well as revenue growth.

Increased capital spend will drive higher COGS growth then in FY '23, and FY '24 operating expense growth will remain low as we prioritize our spend. Therefore, we expect full-year operating margins to remain flat year over year, even with the headwind from the change in accounting estimate. And finally, we expect our FY '24 tax rate to be around 19%. Now, to the outlook for the first quarter.

First, FX. Based on current rates, we expect FX to increase total revenue and operating expense growth by approximately one point with no impact to COGS growth. Within the segments, we expect FX to increase revenue growth in Intelligent Cloud by one point with no impact to Productivity and Business Processes or More Personal Computing. In Commercial bookings, strong execution across our core annuity sales motions, including our renewal and upsell motions along with long-term measure commitments should drive healthy growth on a growing expiry base.

Microsoft Cloud gross margin percentage should decrease roughly one point year over year, driven by the accounting estimate change headwind noted earlier. Excluding that impact, Q1 cloud gross margin percentage will be up roughly one point, primarily driven by improvements in Azure and Office 365, partially offset by sales mix shift to Azure and the impact of scaling our AI infrastructure to meet growing demand. We expect capital expenditures to increase sequentially on a dollar basis, as noted earlier, driven by investments in our AI infrastructure. Reminder, there can be normal quarterly spend variability and the timing of cloud infrastructure build-out.

Next, the segment guidance. In Productivity and Business Processes, we expect revenue to grow between 9% and 11%, or $18 billion to $18.3 billion. In Office Commercial, revenue growth will again be driven by Office 365 with seat growth across customer segments and ARPU growth through E5. We expect Office 365 revenue growth to be roughly 16% in constant currency.

In our on-premises business, we expect revenue to decline in the low 20s. In Office Consumer, we expect revenue growth to be in the low to mid-single digits, driven by Microsoft 365 subscriptions. For LinkedIn, we expect revenue growth in the low to mid-single digits. Even with share gains in our hiring business, growth will continue to be impacted by the overall markets for recruiting and advertising, especially in the technology industry, where we have significant exposure.

And in Dynamics, we expect revenue growth in the mid- to high teens, driven by continued growth in Dynamics 365. For Intelligent Cloud, we expect revenue to grow between 15% and 16% or 14% and 15% in constant currency. Revenue should be $23.3 billion to $23.6 billion. Revenue will continue to be driven by Azure, which, as a reminder, can have quarterly variability primarily from our per-user business and from in-period revenue recognition depending on the mix of contracts.

In Azure, we expect revenue growth to be 25% to 26% in constant currency, including roughly two points from all Azure AI Services. Growth continues to be driven by our Azure consumption business, and we expect the trends from Q4 to continue into Q1. Our per-user business should continue to benefit from Microsoft 365 suite momentum though we expect continued moderation in growth rates, given the size of the installed base. In our on-premises server business, we expect revenue to decline low to mid-single digits against the prior comparable that benefited from annuity purchasing ahead of the SQL Server 2022 launch.

In Enterprise Services, revenue should decline low to mid-single digits year over year as growth in Enterprise Support Services will be more than offset by a decline in Industry Solutions. In More Personal Computing, we expect revenue of $12.5 billion to $12.9 billion. Windows OEM revenue should decline low to mid-teens, including five points of negative impact from the earlier back-to-school inventory builds that were pulled into the fourth quarter. Our guide assumes no significant changes to the PC demand environment.

In devices, revenue should decline in the mid-30s due to the overall PC market and adjustments we made in our portfolio with an increased focus on our higher-margin premium products. In Windows Commercial products and cloud services, customer demand for Microsoft 365 and our advanced security solutions should drive revenue growth in the mid- to high single digits. Search and news advertising ex-TAC revenue growth should be mid- to high single digits, roughly five points higher than overall search and news advertising revenue, driven by continued volume strength supported by Edge browser share gains. Growth will continue to be impacted by the advertising spend environment and third-party partnerships mentioned earlier.

We continue to be excited by Bing usage signals and the longer-term opportunity as we invest in AI. And in gaming, we expect revenue growth in the mid-single digits. We expect Xbox content and services revenue growth in the mid- to high single digits, driven by first-party and third-party content, as well as Xbox Game Pass. Now, back to company guidance.

We expect COGS between $16.6 billion to $16.8 billion and operating expense of $13.5 billion to $13.6 billion. Together, total COGS growth should be around 6%. Other income and expense should be roughly $300 million as interest income is expected to more than offset interest expense. Two reminders.

This does not include any impact from Activision on interest income and expense, and we are required to recognize mark-to-market gains or losses on our equity portfolio, which can increase quarterly volatility. We expect our Q1 effective tax rate to be around 19%. And finally, as a reminder for Q1 cash flow, we expect to make a $2.7 billion cash tax payment related to the TCJA transition tax. We do not expect payment related to the R&D capitalization provision in Q1.

In closing, as a company, we delivered on the FY '23 financial commitments we discussed a year ago on revenue and operating margin. A focus on operational excellence allowed us to achieve these targets while we delivered near-term value to customers and prioritized our investments to continue to lead in the future. As we start FY '24, we are excited for the opportunities ahead and remain focused on delivering the three key priorities Satya mentioned. We'll maintain our lead as the top commercial cloud by helping customers use the breadth and depth of the Microsoft Cloud.

We'll continue to invest in our cloud and AI infrastructure while scaling with growing demand so we can lead the AI platform wave. And finally, we'll align our costs with growth as we are committed to driving operating leverage. With that, let's go to Q&A, Brett.

Brett Iversen -- General Manager, Investor Relations

Thanks, Amy. We'll now move over to Q&A. Out of respect for others on the call, we request the participants to please only ask one question. Joe, can you please repeat your instructions?

Questions & Answers:

Operator

Yes. [Operator instructions] One moment, please, while we poll for questions. Our first question comes from the line of Keith Weiss with Morgan Stanley. Please proceed.

Keith Weiss -- Morgan Stanley -- Analyst

Excellent. Thank you, guys, for taking the question. A very nice end to a great fiscal year. Satya, you started your comments talking about how every customer conversation has the customer asking you about utilizing generative AI technology and how fast they could utilize that generative AI technology.

What's the answer? What do you tell them in terms of the pace with which that could get into the marketplace and your customers can start using it? And then for Amy, how should investors think about just the fundamental gross margins behind these generative AI technologies? We understand there's going to be a lot of capex to ramp up underneath these. But what should we expect in terms of what the ultimate gross margin looks like underneath all these new generative AI solutions? Thank you.

Satya Nadella -- Chief Executive Officer

Thank you, Keith, for the question. The fundamental guidance and conversation that we have with customers is twofold. One is the easiest path to value over generative AI is to adopt solutions, for example, GitHub Copilot. In some sense, it's sort of a no-brainer to add productivity leverage for all of the software developers in any organization.

Whether you're a bank, you're a retailer or you're a software company, it applies to everyone. So, that's probably one of the things that we have seen very good even productivity data and great adoption. And then obviously, the excitement that there is already around the M365 Copilot. So, first thing we sort of talk about is how we ourselves are deploying all these Copilots across, whether it's Sales Copilot or M365 Copilot, or GitHub Copilot, how do you get maximum value out of this horizontal toolchain? And then on top of that, we have taken what we did underneath these products and built it out as a first-class tech stack, right, which we talked at our developer conference called the Copilot Stack, and then with Azure AI tooling, made it possible for someone like Moody's to build their own Copilot for their people.

So, to us, we want to be able to help customers build their generative AI applications on top of Azure AI and with speed, if you will. And so, those are the two things that we ask them to identify where they can get the maximum productivity leverage. And then we even swung with our own resources to help them get those things done. And the last comment I'd make is the cloud and data in the cloud enables all this because I think the diffusion cycle here, in some sense, we have a new set of cloud meters that are getting adopted faster because of everything else that came before it in the cloud.

So, those would be the observations.

Amy Hood -- Chief Financial Officer

And to your question, Keith, on gross margins and how I think about those going forward, the first thing I would say is that I expect gross margins here to transition over time just like they did in the prior pilot transition. I would also say I expect workloads and the gross margins of the workloads to be different, just like they are in the cloud today. I would also add one thing that's different than last time, we talked a bit about this before, is that we start out in a different place with more of a shared platform, which allows us to scale those gross margins a bit faster than last time. And we do expect, as you asked and Satya talked about, the pace of this adoption curve, we do expect to be faster.

So, you're seeing the capex spend accelerate in Q4 and then again in Q1, and we've talked about what it should look like the rest of the year. Now, that being said, we're talking about all that and going through that transition while delivering in FY '24 over FY '23, effectively one point higher operating margins. Because if it's flat year over year, as we guided, with the headwind from the useful life change, when you correct for that, it's about one point higher. So, I think the real focus here is being able to be aggressive in meeting the demand curve and focusing on the transition and growth in gross margins and delivering the operating leverage.

Keith Weiss -- Morgan Stanley -- Analyst

Excellent. Thank you, guys.

Brett Iversen -- General Manager, Investor Relations

Thanks, Keith. Operator, next question, please.

Operator

Our next question comes from the line of Brent Thill with Jefferies. Please proceed.

Brent Thill -- Jefferies -- Analyst

Thank you. Satya, on the optimization headwinds that you continue to see, when do you think we hit peak optimization? Are we getting close to hitting that peak and getting some relief in the back half of the year and maybe AI helping provide us a tailwind? Any color from what you're seeing from your perspective would be helpful.

Satya Nadella -- Chief Executive Officer

Sure, Brent. Thank you for the question. Yeah, a couple of observations. One is I think overall in the cloud, you do see new project starts and then those projects starts get optimized and then you sort of time series all of that, and that's sort of what you see in the normal course.

What happened here was during the pandemic, obviously, there were lots of new project starts, and optimization in some sense was postponed, and that's where you're seeing, I'll call it, catch-up optimization. And that's something that, to your point, we will lap going into the next couple of quarters, I think, will come down. And we are seeing new project starts, both traditional type of project starts, even cloud migrations, data applications, and of course, obviously, the AI applications. But we'll get back to I'll call the normal pace of new project starts and optimizations going forward, that we will cycle through, I think, in the next couple of quarters, what is the last catch-up optimization.

Amy Hood -- Chief Financial Officer

I would just add, Brent, I think to Satya's point and maybe to build a bit of a line for you, I think it felt very similar to last quarter where we made the same comments, which is we're seeing sort of the normal optimization plus we're seeing new workload starts across these workloads Satya talked about. And I think that's what we're saying going forward and really what the change is just that lapping of, I think, a bit of a catch-up from a year ago. And you're right, we'll continue to do that through H2.

Brent Thill -- Jefferies -- Analyst

Thanks.

Brett Iversen -- General Manager, Investor Relations

Thanks, Brent. Operator, next question, please.

Operator

The next question comes from the line of Mark Moerdler with Bernstein Research. Please proceed.

Mark Moerdler -- AllianceBernstein -- Analyst

Thank you very much for taking the question, and congrats on the quarter. Amy, moved up significantly Q over Q and year over year, and it's increasing moving forward. Can you give us some color? Is it physical data centers? Is it predominantly servers? Is it predominantly AI-driven? How should we think about the useful life of it? And then quickly for Satya. Can you give us status on the general availability of the full Copilot development stack and how long it's taking clients and partners to build Copilots? Thanks.

Amy Hood -- Chief Financial Officer

Why don't I start on the capex question, Satya, then I'll turn it over to you. Mark, really first of all, both in Q4 and then talking about Q1, the acceleration is really quite broad. It's both on -- both the data centers and a physical basis plus CPUs and GPUs and networking equipment, think of it in a broad as opposed to a narrow sense. So, it's overall increases of acceleration of overall capacity.

And I think if you look back over really FY '23, you wouldn't have seen some of the pace on normal, what I would say, capacity adds even for the normal Azure workload. So, you're seeing both accelerations, the normal Azure workloads plus some of the AI workloads is partially the reason. So, it's why I do comment quite often that it's both overall Commercial Cloud demand and building out capacity for AI. It's both.

Satya Nadella -- Chief Executive Officer

Yeah. And I think just for perspective, I think it's sort of always good to think about it, right, where we have, what, 111 billion Commercial Cloud business growing at, what, 22% year over year. And then you had a capex growth which is around the same number, 23%, 24%. So, in some sense, it's sort of replacement capital plus some new capital that is going to drive new growth.

So, that's, I think, the scale. And we feel good about that structure of overall growth rates and how it translates into future TAM opportunity for us. And then to your other question on how all this translates into project starts effectively, the Copilot stack is available today on Azure. So, we have everything from Azure AI toolchain where you can use obviously, Azure OpenAI or even you can use open models from Llama and other models.

You have the Fabric and all of our operational data stores for what is one of the most useful patterns around generative AI as what is called retrieval augmented generation, which is you take the data that you have in the data stores, use it in a prompt to generate completions, summaries, what have you. And so, that's something that we've seen a lot of, and the Copilot are fundamentally orchestrations of that. And so, we have these services available. The thing that's fascinating is when you use something like Power Virtual Agent, you have a low-code, no-code tool to build effectively these AI products.

All full-fledged Copilots like we've built and all the underlying primitives for that are available on Azure. The toolchain is available on Azure and the speed with which customers are able to deploy them, ISVs are able to build them is pretty impressive.

Mark Moerdler -- AllianceBernstein -- Analyst

Thank you. Appreciate it.

Brett Iversen -- General Manager, Investor Relations

Thanks, Mark. Operator, next question, please.

Operator

The next question comes from the line of Kash Rangan with Goldman Sachs. Please proceed.

Kash Rangan -- Goldman Sachs -- Analyst

Hi. Thank you very much. Congratulations on the quarter. If I could, I just wanted to get your thoughts to shift the discussion away from COGS and the capex to more of the top-line outlook.

It looks like Azure growth rate is definitely starting to stabilize and generative AI contribution to Azure is measurably improving quarter over quarter, and optimization in a broader sense is also starting to settle down. Where does this leave with the company's outlook for Azure growth rate in the future quarters? Are we at a point where we've bottomed out, and we could start to see some acceleration due to the trends we discussed? And also, if you take the superset of Microsoft Cloud, when you throw in the new pricing for Copilot, it certainly looks like the TAMs are opening up in a pretty significant way. So, when you take the broader lens, that 21%, 22% growth that Satya and Amy referred to, what could be the outlook? Could we be too optimistic in entertaining hopes of some kind of acceleration in the years ahead? Or how do you think about the outlook on the top line? Thank you so much.

Satya Nadella -- Chief Executive Officer

Sure, Kash. Thanks for the question. So, maybe I'll start and then, Amy, you can add because I think -- we do think about what's the long-term TAM here, right? I mean, this is -- you've heard me talk about this as a percentage of GDP, what's going to be tech spend? If you believe that, let's say, the 5% of GDP is going to go to 10% of GDP, maybe that gets accelerated because of the AI wave. Then the question is how much of that goes to the various parts of our Commercial Cloud and then how competitive are we in each layer, right? So, if you sort of break it down, talked about how Microsoft 365, we think of this Copilot as a third pillar, right? We had the creation tools.

We then had all the communication and collaboration services, and we think of this AI Copilot as the third pillar. So, we are excited about it. Amy talked about how we want to get it out first and part of this preview. And then in the second half of the next fiscal year, we'll start getting some of the real revenue signal from it.

So, we're looking forward to it. But we think of it long term as a third pillar, like we thought about something like, say, Teams or SharePoint back in the day or what have you. Then Azure, the way I think about it is we still are, whatever, you're inning 2 or inning 3 of even the cloud migration, especially if you view it, right, whether by industry moves to the cloud, segment move to the cloud, as well as country adoption of the cloud, right? So, there's still early innings of the cloud migration itself. So, there's a lot there still.

And then on top of that, there's this complete new world of AI driving a set of new workloads. And so, we think of that, again, being pretty expansive from a TAM opportunity and we'll play it out. But at the same time, you know, as we are a $111 billion Commercial Cloud that has grown in 20s, and so therefore, we do hit law of large numbers. But that said, we do think that this is business that can have sustained high growth, which is something that we are excited about.

Amy Hood -- Chief Financial Officer

And I think the only thing, Kash, I would add is, I think in some ways, what we're really pointing to is there's a process here. We see the demand signals quite strong. It remains strong. I'm thrilled with all the product announcements we've made.

I'm thrilled with them moving to preview and then moving to GA. They absolutely are expansive in terms of addressable market. They reach new budget pools is almost the way I talk about it a lot in terms of how CIOs or CFOs that I talk to think about that investment, so a growing opportunity. And as you know, we're focused on executing against that.

And then revenue is an outcome. But it certainly does require -- the demand signal requires the capital expense and then creates the opportunity. And that's why I think in some ways, we're spending a little more time talking about some of that investment is because it is the demand signal.

Kash Rangan -- Goldman Sachs -- Analyst

Awesome. Thank you so much.

Brett Iversen -- General Manager, Investor Relations

Thanks, Kash. Operator, next question, please.

Operator

Our next question comes from the line of Karl Keirstead with UBS. Please proceed.

Karl Keirstead -- UBS -- Analyst

OK, great. Amy, if I could double-click a little bit on the exciting news around M365 Copilot as everybody on the line looks to layer that opportunity into our models. I just wanted to get your views. Are there any guardrails you'd offer us to sort of keep us in line? Is there a degree of gross margin pressure in the Office segment? In other words, is it a fairly cost-intensive new product that we should keep in mind? And also, could it pull along Azure in the sense that you need Azure AD and perhaps some of the other cybersecurity products? So, a little color there might help everybody with their modeling exercise tonight and in the coming weeks.

Amy Hood -- Chief Financial Officer

Thanks, Karl. You know, I think maybe I'll first start with the process we have when we release new products. And I absolutely understand we are excited, too, by the demand signal, the customer reaction, really the requests we're getting to be in the paid preview. It's all encouraging.

As you know, last week, we announced pricing, then we'll continue to work through the paid preview process, get good feedback. Then we'll announce the general availability date, then we'll get to the GA date. Then we'll, of course, be able to sell it and then recognize revenue. And that is why I continue to say that I am just as excited as everyone else about this, and it should be more H2-weighted.

And we've, I think, given you some sizing opportunities. And I think I would use all that. But I do think this is really about pacing. And of course, we've still got to get our Security Copilot and some of the Dynamics workloads priced and released, and we'll continue to work toward that.

And of course, I think one of the things that people often, I think, overlook is, and Satya mentioned it briefly when you go back to the pool on Azure, I think in many ways, lots of these AI products pull along Azure because it's not just the AI solution services that you need to build an app. And so, it's less about Microsoft 365 pulling it along or any one Copilot. It's that when you're building these, it requires data, and it requires the AI services. So, you'll see them pull both core Azure and AI Azure along with them.

And I think that's an important nuance as well.

Satya Nadella -- Chief Executive Officer

Yeah. I could just add to what Amy said. The platform effect here is really all about the extensibility of the Copilots. You see that today when people build applications in Teams that are built on Power Apps, and those Power Apps happen to use something like SQL DB on Azure.

That's like a classic line of business extension. So, you'll see the same thing. When I have a Copilot plug-in, that plug-in uses Azure AI, Azure meters, Azure data sources, Azure semantic search. So, you'll see, obviously, a pull-through not only on the identity or security layer but in the core PaaS services of Azure plus the Copilot extensibility in M365.

Karl Keirstead -- UBS -- Analyst

Terrific. Thank you.

Brett Iversen -- General Manager, Investor Relations

Thanks, Karl. Operator, next question, please.

Operator

Our next question comes from the line of Mark Murphy with JPMorgan. Please proceed.

Mark Murphy -- JPMorgan Chase and Company -- Analyst

Yes. Thank you very much. Satya, there's so much evidence now that GitHub Copilot is boosting developer productivity by 40% to 50% or more, and it's resulting in higher-quality code. Do you envision a similar level of productivity boost for the Microsoft 365 Copilots or the Security Copilot or Sales Copilot? In other words, can every room in the house be remodeled to a similar extent such that that value proposition is pretty elevated across the entire stack?

Satya Nadella -- Chief Executive Officer

Yeah. You know, Judson Althoff would love you for having used his metaphor of remodeling every room of the house with AI. You're absolutely right. I mean, that's the opportunity we see.

I think what you're also referencing is now there's good empirical evidence and data around the GitHub Copilot and the productivity stats around it. And we're actively working on that for M365 Copilot, also for things like the role-based ones like Sales Copilot, our Service Copilot. We see these business processes having very high productivity gains. And so, yes, over the course of the year, we will have all of that evidence.

And I think at the end of the day, as Amy referenced, every CFO and CIO is also going to take a look at this. I do think for the first time -- or rather, I do think people are going to look at how can they complement their opex spend with essentially these Copilots in order to drive more efficiency and, quite frankly, even reduce the burden and drudgery of work on their opex and their people and so on. So, therefore, I think you're going to see all of that translated into product stats, and we're looking forward to getting that data out.

Mark Murphy -- JPMorgan Chase and Company -- Analyst

Thank you very much.

Brett Iversen -- General Manager, Investor Relations

Thanks, Mark. Operator, next question, please.

Operator

The next question comes from the line of Alex Zukin with Wolfe Research. Please proceed.

Alex Zukin -- Wolfe Research -- Analyst

Hey, guys. Thanks for taking the question. I guess maybe just a multipart. You mentioned a couple of times that with the AI workload adoption that you're seeing on Azure, it's starting to look maybe a little bit different from an incremental share gain perspective versus previous generations.

Can you maybe expand upon that? How should that drive for Azure consumption, particularly as we get through the year? And do you see a scenario where either the combination of lapping the optimization headwind plus the AI contribution plus this incremental tailwind that you're seeing around the workloads actually does drive a reacceleration in Azure, particularly in the second half when you're going to start to see some of those things kick in?

Satya Nadella -- Chief Executive Officer

Yeah. I mean, the thing that we are both seeing and excited about is both the new workloads. I mean, if you think about Azure, we have grown Azure over the years coming from behind. And here we are as a strong No.

2 in the lead when it comes to these new workloads. So, for example, we are seeing new logos, customers who may have used out of the cloud for most of what they do are, for the first time, sort of starting to use Azure for some of their new AI workloads. We also have even customers who've used multiple clouds who use for a class of sort of workloads also start new projects when it's transferred in data and AI, which they were using other So what I think you will see us is more share gains, more logo gains, reducing our CAC even. And so, those are the things of points of leverage.

But at the same time, we are not a small business anymore in any of these things. We're significantly -- we are at significant scale. And so, yes, we celebrate. That's why we're even giving you the visibility at one point of it showing up this quarter, a couple of points showing up next quarter.

And those are material numbers. And so that's kind of what I think will track. And I think Amy mentioned it because we want -- there are two parts to OpenAI, right? There's the models themselves with our partnership with OpenAI. That's sort of one type of spend on compute.

And the other is much more revenue-driven, right, which is we will track the inference cost to the revenue and demand and you're already seeing both of those play out.

Brett Iversen -- General Manager, Investor Relations

Thanks, Alex. Operator, we have time for one last question.

Operator

Our last question will come from the line of Kirk Materne with Evercore ISI. Please proceed.

Kirk Materne -- Evercore ISI -- Analyst

Yeah. Thanks for squeezing me in. Satya, I was wondering if you could expand a little bit on your comments on data platforms. I think we've heard a lot over the last quarter or so about if you don't have a data strategy, it's tough to have an AI strategy.

Can you just talk about where customers are right now in that journey to have a more, I guess, thoughtful data strategy? And what does that mean in terms of their ability to adopt AI services? Meaning do they have to sort of tackle the data issue first before they can really take advantage of all the AI services? Or how should we think about that sort of juxtaposition? Thanks.

Satya Nadella -- Chief Executive Officer

Yeah, sure. Thank you for the question. Yes, absolutely. I think having your data in particular in the cloud is sort of key to how you can take advantage of essentially these new AI reasoning engines to complement, I'll call it, your databases because these AI engines are not databases but they can reason over your data and to help you then get more insights, more completions, more predictions, more summaries and what have you.

So, those are the things. When we say Copilot design pattern, that's sort of what that design pattern is all about. The thing that perhaps, even in the last quarter and I had that in my remarks, that's most exciting is how with Microsoft Fabric, especially for the analytics workloads, we brought together compute, storage, governance with a very disruptive business model. I mean, to give you a flavor for it, right, so you have your data in an Azure data lake.

You can bring SQL Compute to it. You can bring Spark to it. You can bring Azure AI or Azure OpenAI to it, right? So, the fact is you have storage separated from all these compute meters, and they're all interchangeable, right? So, you don't have to buy each of these separately. That's the disruptive business model.

So, I feel that we are well -- Microsoft is very well positioned with the way our data architecture lays out our business model around data and how people will plan to use data with AI services. So, that's kind of what I mean by getting your data estate in order. And it's just not getting data estate in order but you have to have it structured such that you can have the flexibility that allows you to exercise the data and compute in combinations that makes sense for this new age.

Brett Iversen -- General Manager, Investor Relations

Thanks, Kirk. That wraps up the Q&A portion of today's earnings call. Thank you for joining us today, and we look forward to speaking with all of you soon.

Satya Nadella -- Chief Executive Officer

Thank you, all.

Amy Hood -- Chief Financial Officer

Thank you, all.

Operator

[Operator signoff]

Duration: 0 minutes

Call participants:
Brett Iversen -- General Manager, Investor Relations

Satya Nadella -- Chief Executive Officer

Amy Hood -- Chief Financial Officer

Keith Weiss -- Morgan Stanley -- Analyst

Brent Thill -- Jefferies -- Analyst

Mark Moerdler -- AllianceBernstein -- Analyst

Kash Rangan -- Goldman Sachs -- Analyst

Karl Keirstead -- UBS -- Analyst

Mark Murphy -- JPMorgan Chase and Company -- Analyst

Alex Zukin -- Wolfe Research -- Analyst

Kirk Materne -- Evercore ISI -- Analyst

More MSFT analysis
====================
MSFT earnings call for the period ending September 30, 2023.
Logo of jester cap with thought bubble.
IMAGE SOURCE: THE MOTLEY FOOL.

Microsoft (MSFT -0.04%)
Q1 2024 Earnings Call
Oct 24, 2023, 5:30 p.m. ET

Contents:
Prepared Remarks
Questions and Answers
Call Participants
Prepared Remarks:

Operator

Greetings and welcome to the Microsoft fiscal year 2024 first quarter earnings conference call. At this time, all participants are in a listen-only mode. A question-and-answer session will follow the formal presentation. [Operator instructions] As a reminder, this conference is being recorded.

I would now like to turn the call over to your host, Brett Iversen, vice president of investor relations. Mr. Iversen, please go ahead. 

Brett Iversen -- General Manager, Investor Relations

Good afternoon and thank you for joining us today. On the call with me are Satya Nadella, chairman and chief executive officer; Amy Hood, chief financial officer; Alice Jolla, chief accounting officer; and Keith Dolliver, corporate secretary and deputy general counsel. On the Microsoft investor relations website, you can find our earnings press release and financial summary slide deck, which is intended to supplement our prepared remarks during today's call and provides a reconciliation of differences between GAAP and non-GAAP financial measures. More detailed outlook slides will be available on the Microsoft investor relations website when we provide outlook commentary on today's call.

Microsoft completed the acquisition of Activision Blizzard on October 13, 2023. We will share more on the expected impact of the Activision acquisition during the outlook commentary portion of today's call. On this call, we will discuss certain non-GAAP items. The non-GAAP financial measures provided should not be considered as a substitute for or superior to the measures of financial performance prepared in accordance with GAAP.

10 stocks we like better than Microsoft
When our award-winning analyst team has a stock tip, it can pay to listen. After all, the newsletter they have run for over a decade, Motley Fool Stock Advisor, has tripled the market.* 

They just revealed what they believe are the ten best stocks for investors to buy right now… and Microsoft wasn't one of them! That's right -- they think these 10 stocks are even better buys.

See the 10 stocks

*Stock Advisor returns as of February 5, 2024

They are included as additional clarifying items to aid investors in further understanding the company's first quarter performance in addition to the impact these items and events have on the financial results. All growth comparisons we make on the call today relate to the corresponding period of last year, unless otherwise noted. We will also provide growth rates in constant currency when available as a framework for assessing how our underlying businesses performed, excluding the effect of foreign currency rate fluctuations. Where growth rates are the same in constant currency, we'll refer to the growth rate only.

We will post our prepared remarks to our website immediately following the call until the complete transcript is available. Today's call is being webcast live and recorded. If you ask a question, it will be included in our live transmission, in the transcript, and in any future use of the recording. You can replay the call and view the transcript on the Microsoft investor relations website.

During this call, we will be making forward-looking statements, which are predictions, projections, or other statements about future events. These statements are based on current expectations and assumptions that are subject to risks and uncertainties. Actual results could materially differ because of factors discussed in today's earnings press release, in the comments made during this conference call, and in the risk factors section of our Form 10-K, Forms 10-Q and other reports and filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission. We do not undertake any duty to update any forward-looking statement.

And with that, I'll turn the call over to Satya. 

Satya Nadella -- Chief Executive Officer

Thank you, Brett. We are off to a strong start to the fiscal year driven by the continued strength of Microsoft Cloud, which surpassed $31.8 billion in quarterly revenue, up 24%. With Copilots, we are making the age of AI real for people and businesses everywhere. We are rapidly infusing AI across every layer of the tech stack and for every role of business process to drive productivity gains for our customers.

Now I'll highlight examples of our progress, starting with infrastructure. Azure, again, took share as organizations bring their workloads to our cloud. We have the most comprehensive cloud footprint with more than 60 data center regions worldwide, as well as the best AI infrastructure for both training and inference. And we also have our AI services deployed in more regions than any other cloud provider.

This quarter, we announced the general availability of our next-generation H100 virtual machines. Azure AI provides access to best-in-class frontier models from OpenAI and open-source models, including our own, as well as from Meta and Hugging Face, which customers can use to build their own AI apps while meeting cost, latency, and performance needs. Because of our overall differentiation, more than 18,000 organizations now use Azure OpenAI service, including new-to-Azure customers. And we are expanding our reach with digital-first companies with OpenAI APIs as leading AI start-ups use OpenAI to power their AI solutions, therefore, making them Azure customers as well.

We continue to see more cloud migrations with Azure Arc. We are meeting customers where they are, helping them run apps across on-prem, edge, and multicloud environments. We now have 21,000 Arc customers, up 140% year over year. We are the only other cloud provider to run Oracle's database services, making it simpler for customers to migrate their on-prem Oracle databases to our cloud.

Customers like PepsiCo and Vodafone will have access to a seamless, fully integrated experience for deploying, managing, and using Oracle database instances on Azure. And we are the cloud of choice for customers' SAP workloads to companies like Brother Industries, Hanes, Xis and ZF Group all run SAP on Azure. Now on to data. In the age of Copilots, organizations are looking to consolidate their data estate.

That's why with our Microsoft Intelligent Data Platform, we are bringing together operational data stores, analytics, and governance. More than 73% of the Fortune 1000 use three or more of our data solutions today. And with Microsoft Fabric, we are unifying compute, storage, and governance into one end-to-end analytics solution with an all-inclusive business model. More than 16,000 customers are actively using Fabric, including over 50% of the Fortune 500.

Now on to developers. With GitHub Copilot, we are increasing developer productivity by up to 55% while helping them stay in the flow and bringing the joy back to coding. We have over 1 million paid Copilot users and more than 37,000 organizations that subscribe to Copilot for business, up 40% quarter over quarter, with significant traction outside the United States. This quarter, we added new capabilities with GitHub Copilot Chat, which are already being used by both digital natives like Shopify, as well as leading enterprises like Maersk and PwC to supercharge the productivity of their software developers.

All of the number of developers using GitHub has increased 4x since our acquisition five years ago. We have also brought Copilot to Power Platform, enabling anyone to use natural language to create apps, build virtual agents, and analyze data. More than 126,000 organizations, including 3M, Equinor, Lumen Technologies, Nationwide, PG&E, and Toyota have all used Copilot and Power Platform to date. EUI, for example, has enabled Copilot for all 170,000-plus Power Platform users at the company.

And this quarter, we added new Copilot capabilities to Power Pages, making it possible to build data-driven websites using just a few sentences or clicks. Finally, Power Apps remains the market leader in low-code, no-code development now with 20 million monthly active users up 40% year over year. Now on to business applications. All our Dynamics 365 took share for the 10th consecutive quarter.

We're using this AI inflection point to redefine our role in business applications. We are becoming the Copilot-led business process transformation layer on top of existing CRM systems like Salesforce. For example, our sales Copilot helps sellers at more than 15,000 organizations, including Rockwell Automation, Sandvik Coromant, Securitas, and Teleperformance personalize customer interactions based on data from third-party CRMs. We're also bringing Copilot to Dynamics 365 to help with everything from suggested actions and content ideas to faster access to valuable business data.

And this quarter, we introduced Copilot and Dynamics 365 Field Service to help streamline frontline tasks. Now on to industry and cross-industry clouds. In healthcare, our Dragon Ambient eXperience solution helps clinicians automatically document patient interactions at the point of care. It's been used across more than 10 million interactions to date.

And with DAX Copilot, we are applying generative models to draft high-quality clinical notes in seconds, increasing physician productivity and reducing burnout. For example, Atrium Health, a leading provider in Southeast United States, credits DAX Copilot with helping its physicians each save up to 40 minutes per day in documentation time. We're also introducing healthcare data solutions in Microsoft Fabric, enabling providers like Northwestern Medicine and Sing Health to unify health data in a secure, compliant way. And with our Microsoft Cloud for Sovereignty, which will become generally available by the end of the calendar year, we offer industry-leading data sovereignty and encryption controls, meeting the specific needs of public sector customers around the world.

Now on to future work. Copilot is your everyday AI assistant, helping you be more creative in Word, more analytical in Excel, more expressive in PowerPoint, more productive in Outlook and more collaborative in Teams. Tens of thousands of employees at customers like Bayer, KPMG, Mayo Clinic, Suncorp and Visa, including 40% of the Fortune 100, are using Copilot as part of our early access program. Customers tell us that once they use Copilot, they can't imagine work without it, and we are excited to make it generally available for enterprise customers next week.

This quarter, we also introduced a new hero experience in Copilot, helping employees tap into their entire universe of work, data, and knowledge using chat. And the new Copilot lab helps employees build their own work habits for this era of AI by helping them turn good prompts into great ones. When it comes to Teams, usage continues to grow with more than 320 million monthly active users, making Teams the place to work across chat, collaboration, meetings, and calling. This quarter, we introduced a new version of Teams that is up to two times faster while using 50% less memory and includes seamless cross-tenant communications and collaboration.

We have seen nine consecutive quarters of triple-digit revenue growth for Teams Rooms, and more than 10,000 paid customers now use Teams Premium. Teams has also become a multiplayer canvas for business process. There are more than 2,000 apps in Teams store and collaborative apps from Adobe, Atlassian, and Workday each exceeded 1 million monthly active users on Teams. And with Viva, we have created a new market category for employee experience, helping companies like Dell, Lloyds Banking Group, and PayPal build high-performance organizations.

With skills in Viva, we are bringing together information from Microsoft 365 and LinkedIn to help employers understand workforce gaps and suggest personalized learning content to address it, all in the flow of work. All up, we continue to see more organizations choose Microsoft 365 in companies across private and public sector, including Cerberus, Chanel, DXC Technology, all rely on our premium E5 offerings for advanced security, compliance, voice, and analytics. Now on to Windows. The PC market unit volumes were at roughly pre-pandemic levels.

And we continue to innovate across Windows, adding differentiated AI-powered experiences to the operating system. We rolled out the biggest update to Windows 11 ever with 150 new features, including new AI-powered experiences like Clipchamp, Paint and Photos. And we introduced Copilot in Windows, the Everyday AI companion, which incorporates the context of the web, your work data, and what you are doing on the PC to provide better assistance. We are seeing accelerated Windows 11 deployments worldwide from companies like BP, Eurowings, Kantar, and RBC.

Finally, with Windows 365 Boot and Switch, we are making it easier than ever for employees at companies like Crocs, Hamburg Commercial Bank, and the ING Bank to get a personalized Windows 365 Cloud PC with Copilot on any device. Now on to security. The speed, scale, and sophistication of cyberattacks today is unparalleled, and security is the No. 1 priority for CIOs worldwide.

We see high demand for Security Copilot, the industry's first and most advanced generative AI product, which is now seamlessly integrated with Microsoft 365 Defender. Dozens of organizations, including Bridgewater, Fidelity National Financial, and Government of Alberta, have been using Copilot in preview and early feedback has been positive. And we look forward to bringing Copilot to hundreds of organizations in the coming months as part of the new early access program so they can improve the productivity of their own security operation centers and stop threats at machine speed. More broadly, we continue to take share across all major categories we serve.

And our SIEM Microsoft Sentinel now has more than 25,000 customers and revenues past $1 billion annual run rate. And customers in every industry like Booz Allen Hamilton, Grant Thorton, and MetLife use our end-to-end solutions to protect their environment. Now on to LinkedIn. We are now applying this new generation of AI to transform how the 985 million members learn, sell, and get hired.

Membership growth has now accelerated each quarter for over two years in a row. This quarter, we introduced new AI-driven features across all of our businesses, including a learning coach that gives members personalized content guidelines and tools to help employers find qualified candidates and sellers and marketeers attract buyers in a single step. Since introducing AI-assisted messages for recruiters five months ago, three-fourths of them say it saves them time. And we have seen a nearly 80% increase in members watching AI-related learning courses this quarter.

More broadly, we continue to see record engagement and knowledge sharing on the platform. We now have more than 450 million newsletter subscriptions globally, up 3x year over year. Premium subscription sign-ups were up 55% year over year, and our hiring business took share for the fifth consecutive quarter. Now on to search advertising and news.

With our Copilots for the web, we are redefining how people use the Internet to search and create. Bing users have engaged in more than 1.9 billion chats, and Microsoft Edge has now gained share for 10 consecutive quarters. This quarter, we introduced new personalized answers, as well as support for DALL·E 3, helping people get more relevant answers and to create incredibly realistic images. More than 1.8 billion images have been created to date.

And with our Copilot in shopping, people can find more tailored recommendations and better deals. We're also expanding to new end points, bringing Bing to Meta's AI chat experience in order to provide more up-to-date answers, as well as access to real-time search information. Finally, we are integrating this new generation of AI directly into our ad platforms to more effectively connect marketeers to customer intent and chat experiences both from us, as well as customers like Axel Springer and Snap. Now on to gaming.

We were delighted to close our acquisition of Activision Blizzard King earlier this month. Together, we will advance our goal of bringing great games to players everywhere on any end point. Already with Game Pass, we are redefining how games are distributed, played, and discovered. We set a record for hours played per subscriber this quarter.

Prerelease stuff fill this quarter to broad acclaim. More than 11 million people have played the game to date. Nearly half of the hours played have been on PC and on launch day, we set a record for the most Game Pass subscriptions added on a single day ever. Minecraft has now surpassed 300 million copies sold and with Activision Blizzard King, we now add significant depth to our content portfolio.

We will have $13 billion-plus franchises from Candy Crush, Diablo, and Halo to Warcraft, Elder Scrolls, and Gears of War. And we're looking forward to one of our strongest first-party holiday lineup ever, including new titles like Call of Duty: Modern Warfare 3 and Forza Motorsport. In closing, we are rapidly innovating to expand our opportunity across our consumer and commercial businesses as we help our customers thrive in this new era. In just a few weeks, we'll be holding our flagship Ignite Conference, where we will introduce more than 100 new products and capabilities, including exciting new AI innovations.

I encourage you to tune in. With that, I'll turn it over to Amy. 

Amy Hood -- Chief Financial Officer

Thank you, Satya, and good afternoon, everyone. This quarter, revenue was $56.5 billion, up 13% and 12% in constant currency. Earnings per share was $2.99 and increased 27% and 26% in constant currency. Consistent execution by our sales teams and partners have a strong start to the fiscal year.

Results exceeded expectations, and we saw share gains again this quarter across many businesses as customers adopt our innovative solutions to transform their businesses. In our commercial business, the trends from the prior quarter continued. We saw healthy renewals, particularly in Microsoft 365 E5, and growth of new business continued to be moderated for stand-alone products sold outside the Microsoft 365 suite. In Azure, as expected, the optimization trends were similar to Q4.

Higher-than-expected AI consumption contributed to revenue growth in Azure. In our consumer business, PC market unit volumes are returning to pre-pandemic levels. Advertising spend landed roughly in line with our expectations. And in gaming, strong engagement helped by the Starfield launch benefited Xbox content and services.

Commercial bookings increased 14% and 17% in constant currency, in line with expectations, primarily driven by strong execution across our core annuity sales motion with continued growth in the number of $10 million-plus contracts for both Azure and Microsoft 365. Commercial remaining performance obligation increased 18% to $212 billion. Roughly 45% will be recognized in revenue in the next 12 months, up 15% year over year. The remaining portion, which will be recognized beyond the next 12 months, increased 20%.

And this quarter, our annuity mix was 96%. FX did not have a significant impact on our results and was roughly in line with our expectations on total company revenue, segment-level revenue, COGS, and operating expense growth. Microsoft Cloud revenue was $31.8 billion and grew 24% and 23% in constant currency, ahead of expectations. Microsoft Cloud gross margin percentage increased slightly year over year to 73%, a point better than expected, primarily driven by improvement in Azure.

Excluding the impact of the change in accounting estimate for useful lives, Microsoft Cloud gross margin percentage increased roughly 2 points driven by the improvement just mentioned in Azure, as well as Office 365, partially offset by the impact of scaling our AI infrastructure to meet growing demand. Company gross margin dollars increased 16% and 15% in constant currency, and gross margin percentage increased year over year to 71%. Excluding the impact of the change in accounting estimate, gross margin percentage increased roughly 3 points driven by the improvement in Azure and Office 365, as well as sales mix shift to higher-margin businesses. Operating expenses increased 1%, lower than expected due to cost efficiency focus, as well as investments that shifted to future quarters.

Operating expense growth was driven by marketing, LinkedIn, and cloud engineering, partially offset by devices. At a total company level, headcount at the end of September was 7% lower than a year ago. Operating income increased 25% and 24% in constant currency. Operating margins increased roughly 5 points year over year to 48%.

Excluding the impact of the change in accounting estimate, operating margins increased roughly 6 points driven by improved operating leverage through cost management and the higher gross margin noted earlier. Now to our segment results. Revenue from productivity and business processes was $18.6 billion and grew 13% and 12% in constant currency, ahead of expectations, driven by better-than-expected results in Office 365 commercial and LinkedIn. Office commercial revenue grew 15% and 14% in constant currency.

Office 365 commercial revenue increased 18% and 17% in constant currency, slightly better than expected with a bit more in-period revenue recognition, while billings remained relatively in line with expectations. Growth continues to be driven by healthy renewal execution and ARPU growth as E5 momentum remains strong. Paid Office 365 commercial seats grew 10% year over year with installed base expansion across all customer segments. Seat growth was again driven by our small and medium business and frontline worker offerings with continued impact from the growth trends in new stand-alone business noted earlier.

Office commercial licensing declined 17%, in line with the continued customer shift to cloud offerings. Office consumer revenue increased 3% and 4% in constant currency with continued momentum in Microsoft 365 subscriptions, which grew 18% to $76.7 million. LinkedIn revenue increased 8%, ahead of expectations, driven by slightly better-than-expected performance across all businesses. Growth was driven by Talent Solutions, though we continue to see negative year-over-year bookings there from the weaker hiring environment in key verticals.

Dynamics revenue grew 22% and 21% in constant currency driven by Dynamics 365, which grew 28% and 26% in constant currency with continued growth across all workloads. Segment gross margin dollars increased 13% and gross margin percentage increased slightly year over year. Excluding the impact of the change in accounting estimate, gross margin percentage increased roughly 1 point driven by improvement in Office 365. Operating expenses increased 2% and operating income increased 20% and 19% in constant currency.

Next, the Intelligent Cloud segment. Revenue was $24.3 billion, increasing 19% and ahead of expectations with better-than-expected results across all businesses. Overall, server products and cloud services revenue grew 21%. Azure and other cloud services revenue grew 29% and 28% in constant currency, including roughly 3 points from AI services.

While the trends from prior quarter continued, growth was ahead of expectations primarily driven by increased GPU capacity and better-than-expected GPU utilization of our AI services, as well as slightly higher-than-expected growth in our per-user business. In our per-user business, the Enterprise Mobility and Security install base grew 11% to over 259 million seats with continued impact from the growth trends in new stand-alone business noted earlier. In our on-premises server business, revenue increased 2%, ahead of expectations, driven primarily by demand in advance of Windows Server 2012 end of support. Enterprise and partner services revenue increased 1% and was relatively unchanged in constant currency, ahead of expectations, driven by better-than-expected performance in enterprise support services.

Segment gross margin dollars increased 20% and 19% in constant currency, and gross margin percentage increased slightly. Excluding the impact of the change in accounting estimate, gross margin percentage increased roughly 2 points, driven by the improvement in Azure noted earlier, even as we scale our AI infrastructure to meet growing demand. Operating expenses increased 2% and 1% in constant currency. Operating income grew 31% and 30% in constant currency.

Now to more personal computing. Revenue was $13.7 billion, increasing 3% and 2% in constant currency, above expectations with better-than-expected results across all businesses. Windows OEM revenue increased 4% year over year, significantly ahead of expectations, driven by stronger-than-expected consumer channel inventory builds and the stabilizing PC market demand noted earlier, particularly in commercial. Windows Commercial products and cloud services revenue increased 8%, driven by demand for Microsoft 365 E5.

Devices revenue decreased 22%, ahead of expectations due to stronger execution in the commercial segment. Search and news advertising revenue ex TAC increased 10% and 9% in constant currency, slightly ahead of expectations. We saw increased engagement on Bing and Edge share gains again this quarter, although search revenue growth continues to be impacted by a third-party partnership. And in gaming.

Revenue increased 9% and 8% in constant currency, ahead of expectations, driven by better-than-expected subscriber growth in Xbox Game Pass, as well as first-party content, primarily due to the Starfield launch. Xbox content and services revenue increased 13% and 12% in constant currency, and Xbox hardware revenue declined 7% and 8% in constant currency. Segment gross margin dollars increased 13% and 12% in constant currency, and gross margin percentage increased roughly 5 points year over year, driven primarily by sales mix shift to higher-margin businesses. Operating expenses declined 1%, and operating income increased 23% and 22% in constant currency.

Now back to total company results. Capital expenditures, including finance leases, were $11.2 billion to support cloud demand, including investments to scale our AI infrastructure. Cash paid for PP&E was $9.9 billion. Cash flow from operations was $30.6 billion, up 32% year over year, driven by strong cloud billings and collections.

Free cash flow was $20.7 billion, up 22% year over year. This quarter, other income and expense was $389 million, higher than anticipated, driven by interest income, partially offset by net losses on investments and foreign currency remeasurement. Our effective tax rate was approximately 18%. And finally, we returned $9.1 billion to shareholders through share repurchases and dividends.

Now moving to our Q2 outlook, which unless specifically noted otherwise, is on a U.S. dollar basis. The Activision acquisition closed on October 13. So, my commentary includes the net impact of the deal from the date of acquisition.

Our outlook includes purchase accounting impact, integration and transaction-related expenses based on our current understanding of the purchase price allocation and related deal accounting. The net impact includes adjusting for the movement of Activision content from our prior relationship as a third-party partner to first party. Now to FX. Based on current rates, we expect FX to increase total revenue and segment-level revenue growth by approximately 1 point.

We expect FX to have no impact to COGS and operating expense growth. In commercial bookings, we expect consistent execution across our core annuity sales motion, including healthy renewals, but growth will be impacted by a low-growth expiry base. Therefore, we expect bookings growth to be relatively flat. Microsoft Cloud gross margin percentage should be relatively flat year over year.

Excluding the impact from the accounting estimate change, Q2 cloud gross margin percentage will be up roughly 1 point, primarily driven by improvement in Azure and Office 365, partially offset by the impact of scaling our AI infrastructure to meet growing demand. We expect capital expenditures to increase sequentially on a dollar basis, driven by investments in our cloud and AI infrastructure. As a reminder, there can be normal quarterly spend variability in the timing of our cloud infrastructure buildout. Next to segment guidance.

In productivity and business processes, we expect revenue to grow between 11% and 12% or USD 18.8 billion to USD 19.1 billion. Growth in constant currency will be approximately 1 point lower. In Office commercial, revenue growth will again be driven by Office 365 with seat growth across customer segments and ARPU growth through E5. We expect Office 365 revenue growth to be up roughly 16% in constant currency.

We're excited for Microsoft 365 Copilot general availability on November 1 and expect the related revenue to grow gradually over time. In our on-premise business, we expect revenue to decline in the mid- to high teens. In Office consumer, we expect revenue growth in the mid-single digits, driven by Microsoft 365 subscriptions. For LinkedIn, we expect revenue growth in the mid-single digits, driven by Talent Solutions and Marketing Solutions.

Growth continues to be impacted by the overall market environments for recruiting and advertising, especially in the technology industry where we have significant exposure. And in Dynamics, we expect revenue growth in the high teens driven by Dynamics 365. For Intelligent Cloud, we expect revenue to grow between 17% and 18% or USD 25.1 billion to USD 25.4 billion. Revenue growth in constant currency will be approximately 1 point lower.

Revenue will continue to be driven by Azure, which, as a reminder, can have quarterly variability primarily from our per-user business and from in-period revenue recognition, depending on the mix of contracts. In Azure, we expect revenue growth to be 26% to 27% in constant currency with an increasing contribution from AI. Growth continues to be driven by Azure consumption business, and we expect the trends from Q1 to continue into Q2. Our per-user business should continue to benefit from Microsoft 365 suite momentum, though we expect continued moderation in seat growth rates given the size of the installed base.

For H2, assuming the optimization and new workload trends continue and with the growing contribution from AI, we expect Azure revenue growth in constant currency to remain roughly stable compared to Q2. In our on-premises server business, we expect revenue growth to be roughly flat with continued hybrid demand, particularly from licenses running in multi-cloud environments. In enterprise and partner services, revenue should decline low to mid-single digits. Now to more personal computing, which includes the net impact from the Activision acquisition.

We expect revenue of USD 16.5 billion to USD 16.9 billion. Windows OEM revenue growth should be mid- to high single digits with PC market unit volumes expected to look roughly similar to Q1. In devices, revenue should decline in the mid-teens as we continue to focus on our higher-margin premium products. In Windows Commercial products and cloud services, customer demand for Microsoft 365 and our advanced security solutions should drive revenue growth in the low to mid-teens.

Search and news advertising ex TAC revenue growth should be mid-single digits with roughly 4 points of negative impact from a third-party partnership. Growth should be driven by volume strength supported by Edge browser share gains and increasing Bing engagement as we expect the advertising spend environment to be similar to Q1. Reminder that this ex TAC growth will be roughly 4 points higher than overall search and news advertising revenue. And in gaming, we expect revenue growth in the mid- to high 40s.

This includes roughly 35 points of net impact from the Activision acquisition, which, as a reminder, includes adjusting for the third-party to first-party content change noted earlier. We expect Xbox content and services revenue growth in the mid- to high 50s, driven by roughly 50 points of net impact from the Activision acquisition. Now back to company guidance. We expect COGS between USD 19.4 billion to USD 19.6 billion, including approximately $500 million of amortization of acquired intangible assets from the Activision acquisition.

We expect operating expense of USD 15.5 billion to USD 15.6 billion, including approximately $400 million from purchase accounting adjustments, integration and transaction-related costs from the Activision acquisition. Other income and expense should be roughly negative $500 million as interest income will be more than offset by interest expense, primarily due to a reduction in our investment portfolio balance and the issuance of short-term debt, both for the Activision acquisition. As a reminder, we are required to recognize gains or losses on our equity investments, which can increase quarterly volatility. We expect our Q2 effective tax rate to be between 19% and 20%.

Now some additional thoughts on H2, as well as the full fiscal year. First, FX. Assuming current rates remain stable, we expect FX to have no meaningful impact to full year revenue COGS or operating expense growth. Therefore, in H2, we expect FX to decrease revenue COGS and operating expense growth by 1 point.

Second, Activision. We expect approximately $900 million for purchase accounting adjustments, as well as integration and transaction-related costs in each quarter in H2. For our full FY '24, we remain committed to investing for the cloud and AI opportunity while also maintaining our disciplined focus on operating leverage. Therefore, as we add the net impact of Activision, inclusive of purchase accounting adjustments, as well as integration and transaction-related expenses, we continue to expect full year operating margins to remain flat year over year.

In closing, with our strong start to FY '24, I am confident that as a team, we will continue to deliver healthy growth in the year ahead, driven by our leadership in commercial cloud and our commitment to lead the AI platform wave. With that, let's go to Q&A, Brett. 

Brett Iversen -- General Manager, Investor Relations

Thanks, Amy. We'll now move over to Q&A. Out of respect for others on the call, we request to participants to please ask only one question. Joe, can you please repeat your instructions?

Questions & Answers:

Operator

[Operator instructions] One moment please while we poll for questions. Our first question comes from the line of Keith Weiss with Morgan Stanley. Please proceed.

Keith Weiss -- Morgan Stanley -- Analyst

Excellent. Thank you for taking the question, and very nice quarter. The pace of innovation you guys have been putting out has been pretty amazing. And new products are like garnering traction probably faster than we had expected on our side of the equation.

But we're also working in an overall spending environment that remains volatile at that, and I think investors are getting more concerned on it. So, two questions on this. One, based on sort of the new products and the innovation, do you think you guys can sustain the type of commercial growth that we saw in Q1 as we go through the year? Or is the environment too tricky for that? And then when it relates to investment, Amy, you've been able to keep overall opex growth very low, and it was very low this quarter. At some point, should we be thinking about a return to a more aggressive investment behind all this product innovation? 

Satya Nadella -- Chief Executive Officer

Maybe I can start, Keith, and Amy, you can add to it. Overall, there are multiple things, Keith, that are all happening, obviously, simultaneously. If you just take Azure and try to characterize where is the growth for Azure coming from or what sort of drivers for Azure numbers, there are three things all happening in parallel. Like, for example, take cloud migrations.

A good reminder of where we are and even the core cloud migration story is the new Oracle announcement. Once we announce that the Oracle databases are going to be available on Azure, we saw a bunch of unlock from new customers who have significant Oracle estates that have not yet moved to the cloud because they needed to run the GUI with the rest of the app estate in one single cloud. And so, we're excited about that. So, in some sense, even the financial services sector, for example, is a good place where there's a lot of Oracle that still needs to move to the cloud.

Second thing, of course, is the workloads start, then workloads get optimized and then new workloads start. And that cycle continues. We'll lap some of those optimization cycles that were fairly extreme perhaps in the second half of our fiscal. And the third thing is, for us, that's unique and different is new workload starts around AI.

Given our leadership position, we are seeing complete new project starts, which are AI projects. And as you know, AI projects are not just about AI meters. They have lots of other cloud meters as well. So, that sort of gives you one side of what's happening in terms of enterprise.

The other piece is on the SaaS side. Obviously, again, this is a new product that's going to go through the enterprise adoption cycle. The results are on productivity, which we demonstrated with GitHub Copilot is what's giving us good confidence and our customers, more importantly, good confidence around what these products represent in terms of value. And so, we are in the very, very early innings there.

And so, we look forward to seeing the traction for these products going forward. 

Amy Hood -- Chief Financial Officer

Keith, maybe just a few things to add, and then I'll talk a little bit about the operating leverage, which is the second part of your question. In general, we saw very consistent execution from Q4 to Q1, and that's what we're talking about into Q2. I think that speaks to our value prop, which is where Satya went. It speaks to making sure that customers are getting a very quick return on value, real productivity improvement, real savings so that when we're asking at renewal or talking about E5 upgrades or talking about AI services that those come with real promises of high-value scenarios.

And so, I think that is an important piece as you think about stability in commercial demand. And then if you think about the nature of your question, it was partially why I talked about in my full year guidance that now even with the addition of Activision and purchase accounting impacts, integration impacts, we still feel confident we can deliver consistent operating margins to last year. And it speaks to, I think, some of the improvements we're making in Azure and even Microsoft 365 gross margins, even in the core of the commercial cloud. It speaks to the pace at which we are delivering AI revenue with the increasing cost expense and capital investment ahead with the demand we see.

And although you're right, our operating expense comparables in H2 get more challenging than in H1, we're really focused on making sure that every dollar we put and commit is back to the priorities we talked about, which is commercial cloud leadership and leading the AI wave. And so, I think that focus is really helping on both execution and leverage.

Keith Weiss -- Morgan Stanley -- Analyst

Excellent. Thank you, guys.

Brett Iversen -- General Manager, Investor Relations

Thanks, Keith. Joe, next question, please.

Operator

The next question comes from the line of Mark Moerdler with Bernstein Research. Please proceed.

Mark Moerdler -- AllianceBernstein -- Analyst

Thank you very much and congratulations on a really strong quarter. AI has been far stronger than expected, beat your guidance for Azure this quarter. And while you discussed higher utilization and more GPUs have helped, has the fact that Microsoft has a full AI dev stack, Copilot reference architecture and plug-in architecture, been a meaningful factor not just from a revenue perspective, but also even potentially from a margin perspective? In addition, can you give us any color on whether Azure GPU is predominantly model training? Or are we seeing a lot of inferencing yet from clients? Thanks. 

Satya Nadella -- Chief Executive Officer

OK. Thank you for the question, Mark. Yes, it is true that we have -- the approach we have taken is a full-stack approach all the way from whether it's ChatGPT or Bing chat or all our Copilots all share the same model. So, in some sense, one of the things that we do have is very, very high leverage of the one model that we used, which we trained, and then the one model that we are doing inferencing at scale.

And that advantage sort of trickles down all the way to both utilization internally, utilization of third parties. And also over time, you can see that sort of stack optimization all the way to the silicon because the abstraction layer to which the developers are riding is much higher up than no-level kernels, if you will. So, therefore, I think there is a fundamental approach we took, which was a technical approach of saying we'll have Copilots and Copilot stack all available. That doesn't mean we don't have people doing training for open-source models or proprietary models.

We also have a bunch of open-source models. We have a bunch of fine-tuning happening, a bunch of RLHF happening. So, there's all kinds of ways people use it, but the thing is we have scale leverage of one large model that was trained and one large model that's been used for inference across all our first-party SaaS apps, as well as our API in our Azure AI service.

Amy Hood -- Chief Financial Officer

And the reason, Mark, that's important is that it means, even beyond the point Satya made, is that when it comes to our ability to leverage the infrastructure that we're building out, we don't really have a preference in terms of how people are utilizing that infrastructure, whether it's through all the means that Satya mentioned. It gives us a good opportunity to see quick conversion into revenue. 

Satya Nadella -- Chief Executive Officer

Yeah. I mean one other thing I would just add to perhaps Mark's question, as well as Keith's is in a -- this platform transition, I think, is very important for us to be very disciplined on both I'll call it our tech stack, as well as our capital spend all to be concentrated. The lesson learned from the cloud side is this, we're not running a conglomerate of different businesses. It's all one tech stack up and down Microsoft's portfolio.

And that I think is going to be very important because that discipline, given what the spend like -- it will look like for this AI transition, any business that's not disciplined about their capital spend accruing across all their businesses could run into trouble.

Mark Moerdler -- AllianceBernstein -- Analyst

Extremely helpful. Thank you so much.

Brett Iversen -- General Manager, Investor Relations

Thanks, Mark. Joe, next question, please.

Operator

The next question comes from the line of Brent Thill with Jefferies. Please proceed. 

Brent Thill -- Jefferies -- Analyst

Thanks. Amy, good to see the 12% growth. Many investors are asking can you sustain double-digit growth, especially with the stronger AI boost coming in the next several quarters. 

Amy Hood -- Chief Financial Officer

I think looking at our -- as I said, Q1 was a strong start to the year. Q2 certainly implies that. We talked about stability for Azure into the second half of the year looking at -- and in line with what we're seeing for Q2. And so, I think we feel good about our ability to execute, but more importantly, our ability to continue to take share.

Brett Iversen -- General Manager, Investor Relations

Thanks, Brent Joe. Next question, please.

Operator

The next question comes from the line of Raimo Lenschow with Barclays. Please proceed. 

Raimo Lenschow -- Barclays -- Analyst

Hey, thank you. You sound very optimistic about the opportunity in the Office space with Copilot coming out now very soon. Can you speak a little bit about the -- what you're seeing there in the customer base that tested this already in terms of how excited they were, the special features there? And what does it mean in terms of adoption curve for that going forward once you go GA in 1st of November? Thank you. 

Satya Nadella -- Chief Executive Officer

No, thanks for the question, Raimo. The good news is twofold. One is the fact that, what, 40% of the Fortune 100 are already in the preview and are using the product. And I think you all have also done lots of checks.

And the feedback is very, very positive. And in fact, the interesting thing is it's not any one tool, right, which is the feedback even sort of is very clear that it's the all up. You just keep hitting the Copilot button across every surface, right, whether it's in Word to create documents, in Excel to do analysis or PowerPoint or Outlook or Teams. Like clearly, the Teams Meeting, which is an intelligent recap, right? It's not just a dumb transcript.

It's like having a knowledge base of all your meetings that you can query and add to essentially the knowledge terms of your enterprise. And so, we are seeing broad usage across and the interesting thing is by different functions, whether it's in finance or in sales by roles. We have seen productivity gains like we saw with developers in GitHub Copilot. So, that's the data.

We are very excited about our Ignite Conference, where we will talk a lot more about all of the use cases and where's the value and give more prescriptive guidance on how people can deploy. But so far so good as far as the data is and the feedback is. And of course, this is an enterprise product. I mean at the end of the day, we are grounded on enterprise cycle times in terms of adoption and ramp.

And it's incrementally priced. So, therefore, that all will apply still. But at least for something completely new, to have this level of usage already and this level of excitement is something we're very, very pleased with.

Raimo Lenschow -- Barclays -- Analyst

Thank you.

Brett Iversen -- General Manager, Investor Relations

Thanks, Raimo. Joe, next question, please.

Operator

Next question comes from the line of Karl Keirstead with UBS. Please proceed.

Karl Keirstead -- UBS -- Analyst

OK, great. Thanks. Amy, congrats on the 28% constant currency Azure growth. That's terrific.

I wanted to press you a little bit on the outlook for Azure. You're obviously guiding to a 1- to 2-point decel in December and then stable thereafter. But why would it be stable? Why wouldn't it accelerate in the second half of your fiscal year if the AI contribution is increasing as you bring on more GPU capacity? Is this a function of perhaps continued core ex-AI Azure spend optimization continuing or maybe even getting slightly worse? Why couldn't we see some upside in that Azure number? I know you're trying to be conservative, but I'd just love to understand it. Thanks so much.

Amy Hood -- Chief Financial Officer

Thanks, Karl. A couple of things as I talked about Q2 and then into H2. We've been very consistent that the optimization trends have been consistent for us through a couple of quarters now. Customers are going to continue to do that.

It's an important part of running workloads. That is not new. There obviously were some quarters where it was more accelerated. But that is a pattern that is and has been a fundamental part of having customers, both make new room for new workload adoption and continue to build new capabilities.

And so, I think that impact remains through the rest of the year, and my view is unchanged on that. And then, of course, I think the key component has always been new workload starts. And at the scale we're talking about, being able to have stability in our Azure business does mean that we will have a lot of new workload starts. And primarily, we're expecting those to come from AI workloads.

But AI workloads don't just use our AI services. They use data services and they use other things. And so, that combination, I think, looking on a competitive basis, we feel good about our execution, we feel good about taking share, and we feel good about consistent trends. And so, I feel good about that guide and what it says about where we are on share.

Karl Keirstead -- UBS -- Analyst

Terrific, thanks.

Brett Iversen -- General Manager, Investor Relations

Thanks, Karl. Joe, next question, please.

Operator

The next question comes from the line of Brad Sills with Bank of America. Please proceed. 

Brad Sills -- Bank of America Merrill Lynch -- Analyst

Oh, wonderful. Thank you so much. Very impressive to see the Office 365 Commercial seat growth hanging in here in that double-digit range. It's very impressive just given the scale of that business, we think of Office as having such a dominant market position.

Curious how you think about the -- where that seat is coming from and how many more of those seats are out there to go get.

Amy Hood -- Chief Financial Officer

Thanks for that question. Maybe I'll take that. Satya, if you want to add. In general, our seat growth has -- it does come from all segments but with a particular strength in small and midsized businesses, as well as what we call the frontline worker opportunity.

And then that has been, I would say, looking back a number of quarters, where the majority of our seat growth has gone. And while obviously, it's slowed a bit, to your point, I think the fact that we're still able to add seats at this level speaks to the broadening nature of what Microsoft 365 needs. It's more applicable to more people. And so, I think many people have thought, oh, my goodness, you've got a lot of customers already.

And we look and say, how many people when you expand what Microsoft 365 means, whether it's security or it means analytics or it means Teams, it means lots of things and an expanding definition, it applies to more types of workers. And frankly, the value is such, especially on the small business front, where it's to the point where I think people feel like it's a great way to spend even the spend money they have is this remains a pretty compelling offer.

Brad Sills -- Bank of America Merrill Lynch -- Analyst

Thank you.

Brett Iversen -- General Manager, Investor Relations

Thanks, Brad. Joe, next question, please.

Operator

The next question comes from the line of Brent Bracelin with Piper Sandler. Please proceed.

Brent Bracelin -- Piper Sandler -- Analyst

Thank you. Good afternoon. One thing that really stood out to me was the intelligent cloud segment operating margin. These came in, I think, at the highest level in six years despite elevated AI investments.

Was there a one-time tailwind here that helped? Or are you at the point where Azure has got to kind of scale where Microsoft could sustain high margins even with an ambitious AI investment cycle?

Amy Hood -- Chief Financial Officer

Thanks for that question. I think there are a couple of things going on. I would say, in particular, this was a very good leverage quarter in that segment. Number one, the Azure revenue growth and the stability we're seeing in it absolutely is a help to operating leverage.

The second component of that is our core Azure business. The team continues to deliver thoughtful gross margin improvement across both technical decisions, software implementations. Our teams on the infrastructure build side have done really good work to deliver that. And so, that's been helpful as well.

And then, of course, on operating expenses, there's been a good focus on continuing even within that segment to make sure we're focusing that work leading in the AI transition with Azure. And so, you're right, even as we're investing in AI infrastructure, which will and should show up as revenue, it will also show up in COGS and still deliver good margin. But this does have a slightly, as I talked about earlier, easier comp in Q1 and Q2 given it was some of our highest growth operating expense quarters in our company's history a year ago.

Brent Bracelin -- Piper Sandler -- Analyst

Makes sense. Thank you.

Brett Iversen -- General Manager, Investor Relations

Thanks, Brent. Joe, we have time for one last question.

Operator

The last question will come from the line of Gregg Moskowitz with Mizuho. Please proceed.

Gregg Moskowitz -- Mizuho Securities -- Analyst

OK. Thank you very much for taking the question. Maybe just a follow-up to what Brent was just asking about but on the gross margin line. Amy, the Microsoft Cloud gross margin is up 2 points year over year, excluding the useful life change, a little more improvement than we've seen in some time.

And some investors were worried that it might go in the other direction given increased AI investments. And so, as you look forward, do you think that you could drive some continued gross margin improvement over the medium term and even as higher capex will filter into the model? Thanks.

Amy Hood -- Chief Financial Officer

Yeah. Let me break that into two components because they're both important, and it's a really good question, Gregg. On our core business, the core Azure business, the core Office 365, M365 Business Dynamics business, they continue to deliver gross margin year-over-year improvements in the core. And so, that, like in other quarters, has helped this quarter.

In addition, what Satya mentioned earlier in a question, and I just want to take every chance to reiterate it, if you have a consistent infrastructure from the platform all the way up through its layers that every capital dollar we spend, if we optimize revenue against it, we will have great leverage because wherever demand shows up in the layers, whether it's at the SaaS layer, whether it's at the infrastructure layer, whether it's for training workloads, we're able to quickly put our infrastructure to work generating revenue on our Bing workloads. I mean I should have mentioned all the consumer workloads use the same frame. And so, when you think about our investment in AI, yes, it will -- because we're committed to leading this wave and see demand, you will see that impact in COGS growth. But what we're committed to doing is making sure it's highly leveraged and making sure you see the same growth in revenue.

And I think on occasion, you may see something tick up 1 or 2 points and the other one not quite get there. But the point is it's going to be very well pared because of the choices we've made over the past, frankly, numerous years to get to a point where that infrastructure is consistent.

Satya Nadella -- Chief Executive Officer

And I'll just add that it will be very well pared at the company level. I realize all of you care a lot about each one of our segments and each one of our KPIs, and I do too. But at the end of the day, our stack and the way it works, the way we do our capital allocation, the way we think about even the optimization of the demand to utilization, is across the entirety of all of our segments and all of our products.

Gregg Moskowitz -- Mizuho Securities -- Analyst

Very helpful. Thank you.

Brett Iversen -- General Manager, Investor Relations

Thanks, Gregg. That wraps up the Q&A portion of today's earnings call. Thank you for joining us today, and we look forward to speaking with all of you soon.

Amy Hood -- Chief Financial Officer

Thank you.

Satya Nadella -- Chief Executive Officer

Thank you.

Operator

[Operator signoff]

Duration: 0 minutes

Call participants:
Brett Iversen -- General Manager, Investor Relations

Satya Nadella -- Chief Executive Officer

Amy Hood -- Chief Financial Officer

Keith Weiss -- Morgan Stanley -- Analyst

Mark Moerdler -- AllianceBernstein -- Analyst

Brent Thill -- Jefferies -- Analyst

Raimo Lenschow -- Barclays -- Analyst

Karl Keirstead -- UBS -- Analyst

Brad Sills -- Bank of America Merrill Lynch -- Analyst

Brent Bracelin -- Piper Sandler -- Analyst

Gregg Moskowitz -- Mizuho Securities -- Analyst
==============================
MSFT earnings call for the period ending December 31, 2023.
Logo of jester cap with thought bubble.
IMAGE SOURCE: THE MOTLEY FOOL.

Microsoft (MSFT -0.04%)
Q2 2024 Earnings Call
Jan 30, 2024, 5:30 p.m. ET

Contents:
Prepared Remarks
Questions and Answers
Call Participants
Prepared Remarks:

Operator

Greetings, and welcome to the Microsoft fiscal-year 2024 second quarter earnings conference call. [Operator instructions] As a reminder, this conference is being recorded. I would now like to turn the conference over to your host, Brett Iversen, vice president of investor relations. Please go ahead.

Brett Iversen -- General Manager, Investor Relations

Good afternoon, and thank you for joining us today. On the call with me are Satya Nadella, chairman and chief executive officer; Amy Hood, chief financial officer; Alice Jolla, chief accounting officer; and Keith Dolliver, corporate secretary and deputy general counsel. On the Microsoft investor relations website, you can find our earnings press release and financial summary slide deck, which is intended to supplement our prepared remarks during today's call and provides the reconciliation of differences between GAAP and non-GAAP financial measures. More detailed outlook slides will be available on the Microsoft investor relations website when we provide outlook commentary on today's call.

Microsoft completed the acquisition of Activision Blizzard this quarter, and we are reporting its results in our more personal computing segment, beginning on October 13, 2023. Accordingly, our Xbox content and services revenue growth investor metric includes the net impact of Activision. Additionally, our press release and slide deck contain supplemental information regarding the net impact of the Activision acquisition on our financial results. On this call, we will discuss certain non-GAAP items.

10 stocks we like better than Microsoft
When our award-winning analyst team has a stock tip, it can pay to listen. After all, the newsletter they have run for over a decade, Motley Fool Stock Advisor, has tripled the market.* 

They just revealed what they believe are the ten best stocks for investors to buy right now… and Microsoft wasn't one of them! That's right -- they think these 10 stocks are even better buys.

See the 10 stocks

*Stock Advisor returns as of February 5, 2024

The non-GAAP financial measures provided should not be considered as a substitute for, or superior to, the measures of financial performance prepared in accordance with GAAP. They are included as additional clarifying items to aid investors in further understanding the company's second quarter performance in addition to the impact these items and events have on the financial results. All growth comparisons we make on the call today relate to the corresponding period of last year, unless otherwise noted. We will also provide growth rates and constant currency when available as a framework for assessing how our underlying business is performed, excluding the effect of foreign currency rate fluctuations.

Where growth rates are the same in constant currency, we will refer to the growth rate only. We will post our prepared remarks to our website immediately following the call until the complete transcript is available. Today's call is being webcast live and recorded. If you ask a question, it will be included in our live transmission, in the transcript, and in any future use of the recording.

You can replay the call and view the transcript on the Microsoft investor relations website. During this call, we'll be making forward-looking statements, which are predictions, projections, or other statements about future events. These statements are based on current expectations and assumptions that are subject to risks and uncertainties. Actual results could materially differ because of factors discussed in today's earnings press release, in the comments made during this conference call, and in the Risk Factors section of our Form 10-K, Forms 10-Q, and other reports and filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission.

We do not undertake any duty to update any forward-looking statement. And with that, I'll turn the call over to Satya.

Satya Nadella -- Chief Executive Officer

Thank you, Brett. It was a record quarter, driven by the continued strength of Microsoft Cloud, which surpassed $33 billion in revenue, up 24%. We move from talking about AI to applying AI at scale. By infusing AI across every layer of our tech stack, we are winning new customers and helping drive new benefits and productivity gains.

Now, I'll highlight examples of our momentum and progress, starting with Azure. Azure again took share this quarter with our AI Advantage. Azure offers the top performance for AI training and inference in the most diverse selection of AI accelerators, including the latest from AMD and NVIDIA, as well as our own first-party silicon, Azure Maia. And with Azure AI, we provide access to the best selection of foundation and open-source models, including both LLMs and SLMs, all integrated deeply with infrastructure data and tools on Azure.

We now have 53,000 Azure AI customers. Over one-third are new to Azure over the past 12 months. Our new models-as-a-service offering makes it easy for developers to use LLMs from our partners, like Cohere, Meta, and Mistral, on Azure without having to manage underlying infrastructure. We have also built the world's most popular SLMs, which offer performance comparable to larger models but are small enough to run on a laptop or mobile device.

Anker, Ashley, AT&T, EY, and Thomson Reuters, for example, are all already exploring how to use our SLM Phi for their applications, and we have great momentum with Azure OpenAI Service. This quarter, we added support for OpenAI's latest models, including GPT-4 Turbo, GPT-4 with Vision, DALL-E 3, as well as fine-tuning. We are seeing increased usage from AI-first start-ups, like Moveworks, Perplexity, SymphonyAI, as well as some of the world's largest companies. Over half of the Fortune 500 use Azure OpenAI today, including Ally Financial, Coca-Cola, and Rockwell Automation.

For example, at CES this month, Walmart shared how it's using Azure OpenAI Service, along with its own proprietary data and models, to streamline how more than 50,000 associates work and transform how its millions of customers shop. More broadly, customers continue to choose Azure to simplify and accelerate their cloud migrations. Overall, we are seeing larger and more strategic Azure deals with an increase in the number of billion-dollar-plus Azure commitments. Vodafone, for example, will invest $1.5 billion in cloud and AI services over the next 10 years as it works to transform the digital experience of more than 300 million customers worldwide.

Now on to data. We are integrating the power of AI across the entire data stack. Our Microsoft Intelligent Data Platform brings together operational databases, analytics, governance, and AI to help organizations simplify and consolidate their data estates. Cosmos DB is the go-to database to build AI-powered apps at any scale, powering workloads for companies in every industry, from AXA and Kohl's to Mitsubishi and TomTom.

KPMG, for example, has used Cosmos DB, including its built-in native vector search capabilities, along with Azure OpenAI service, to power an AI assistant, which it credits with driving an up to 50% increase in productivity for its consultants. All up, Cosmos DB data transactions increased 42% year over year. And for those organizations who want to go beyond in-database vector search, Azure AI search offers the best hybrid search solution. OpenAI is using it for retrieval augmented generation as part of ChatGPT.

And this quarter, we made Microsoft Fabric generally available, helping customers, like Milman and PwC, go from data to insights to action, all within the same unified SaaS solution. Data stored in Fabric's multi-cloud data lake, OneLake, increased 46% quarter over quarter. Now on to developers. From GitHub to Visual Studio, we have the most comprehensive and loved developer tools for the era of AI.

GitHub revenue accelerated to over 40% year over year, driven by all our platform growth and adoption of GitHub Copilot, the world's most widely deployed AI developer tool. We now have over 1.3 million paid GitHub Copilot subscribers, up 30% quarter over quarter, and more than 50,000 organizations use GitHub Copilot business to supercharge the productivity of their developers from digital natives like Etsy and HelloFresh to leading enterprises like Autodesk, Dell Technologies, and Goldman Sachs. Accenture alone will rollout GitHub Copilot to 50,000 of its developers this year and we're going further making Copilot ubiquitous across the entire GitHub platform and new AI-powered security features, as well as Copilot enterprise, which tailors Copilot to organization's code bases and allows developers to converse with it in natural language. We're also the leader in low-code no-code development helping everyone create apps, automate workflows, analyze data, and now build custom Copilots.

More than 230,000 organizations have already used AI capabilities in Power Platform, up over 80% quarter over quarter, and with Copilot Studio, organizations can tailor Copilot for Microsoft 365 or create their own custom Copilots. It is already being used by over 10,000 organizations, including An Post, Holland America, PG&E. In just weeks, for example, both PayPal and Tata Digital built copilots to answer common employee queries, increasing productivity and reducing support costs. We're also using this AI moment to redefine our role in Business Applications, Dynamics 365 once again took share as organizations use our AI-powered apps to transform their marketing, sales, service, finance, and supply chain functions.

And we are expanding our TAM by integrating Copilot into third-party systems too. In sales out Copilot has helped sellers at more than 30,000 organizations, including Lumen Technologies and Schneider Electric, to enrich their customer interactions using data from Dynamics 365 or Salesforce. And with our new Copilot for service employees at companies like Northern Trust can resolve client queries faster. It includes out-of-the-box integrations to apps like Salesforce, ServiceNow, and VenDesk.

With our industry and cross-industry clouds, we're tailoring our solutions to meet the needs of specific industries. In healthcare, DAX Copilot is being used by more than 100 healthcare systems, including Lifespan, UNC Health, and UPMC, to increase physician productivity and reduce burnout. And our cloud for retail was front and center at NRF with retailers from Canadian Tire Corporation to Leatherman and Ralph Lauren sharing how they will use our solutions across the shopper journey to accelerate time to value. Now on to future of work.

A growing body of evidence makes clear the role AI will play in transforming work. Our own research, as well as external studies, show as much as 70% improvement in productivity, using generative AI for specific work tasks, and overall early Copilot for Microsoft 365 users were 29% faster in the series of tasks, like searching, writing, and summarizing. Two months in, we have seen faster adoption than either our E3 or E5 suites as enterprises, like Dentsu, Honda, Pfizer, all deploy Copilot to their employees, and we are expanding availability to organizations of all sizes. We're also seeing a Copilot ecosystem begin to emerge ISVs like Atlassian, Mural, and Trello, as well as customers like Air India, Bayer, and Siemens have all built plug-ins for specific lines of business that extend Copilot's capabilities.

When it comes to Teams, we again saw record usage as organizations brought together collaboration chat, meetings, and calling on one platform and Teams has also become a new entry point for us. More than two-thirds of our enterprise Teams customers by phone rooms are premium. All this innovation is driving growth across Microsoft 365. We now have more than 400 million paid Office 365 seats and organizations like BP, Elanco, ING Bank, Mediaset, WTW, all chose E5 this quarter to empower their employees with our best-in-class productivity apps, along with advanced security compliance, voice, and analytics.

Now on to Windows. In 2024, AI will become a first-class part of every PC. Windows PCs with built-in neural processing units were front and center at CES, unlocking new AI experiences to make what you do on your PC easier and faster from searching for answers and summarizing emails to optimizing performance and battery efficiency. Copilot in Windows is already available on more than 75 million Windows 10 and Windows 11 PCs and with our new Copilot key, the first significant change to the Windows keyboard in 30 years, we're providing one-click access.

We also continue to transform how Windows is experienced and managed with Azure Virtual Desktop and Windows 365, introducing new features that make it simpler for employees to access and IT teams to secure their cloud PCs. Usage of cloud-delivered Windows increased over 50% year over year. And all up, Windows 11 commercial deployments increased two times year over year as companies like HPE and Petrobras rolled out operating systems to employees. Now onto security.

The recent security attacks, including the nation-state attack on our corporate systems we reported a week and a half ago, have highlighted the urgent need for organizations to move even faster to protect themselves from cyber threats. It's why, last fall, we announced a set of engineering priorities under our secure future initiative, bringing together every part of the company to advance cybersecurity protection across both new products and legacy infrastructure. And it's why we continue to innovate across our security portfolio, as well as our operational security posture, to help customers adopt a zero-trust security architecture. Our industry-first unified security operations platform brings together our SIM Microsoft Sentinel, our XDR Microsoft Defender, and Copilot for security to help teams manage an increasingly complex security landscape.

And with Copilot for security, we're now helping hundreds of early access customers, including Cmax, Dow, LTI Mindtree, McAfee, Nucor Steel, significantly increase their SecOps team's productivity. This quarter, we extended Copilot to Entra, Intune, and Purview. All-up, we have over 1 million customers, including more than 700,000 who use four or more of our security products like Arrow Electronics, DXC Technology, Freeport-McMoRan, Insight Enterprises, JB Hunt, and the Mosaic Company. Now on to LinkedIn.

LinkedIn is now helping over 1 billion members learn, sell, and get hired. We continue to see strong global membership growth driven by member signups in key markets like Germany and India. In an ever-changing job market, members are staying competitive through skill-building and knowledge-sharing. Over the last 12 months, members have added 680 million skills to their profiles, up 80% year over year.

Our new AI-powered features are transforming the LinkedIn member experience, everything from how people learn new skills to how they search for jobs, and engage with posts. New AI features, including more personalized emails, also continue to increase business ROI on the platform and our hiring business took share for the sixth consecutive quarter. And more broadly, AI is transforming our search and browser experience. We are encouraged by the momentum, earlier this month, we achieved a new milestone with 5 billion images created and 5 billion chats conducted to date, both doubling quarter over quarter and both being an edge took share this quarter.

We also introduced Copilot as a stand-alone destination across all browsers and devices, as well as a Copilot app on iOS and Android. And just two weeks ago, we introduced Copilot Pro, providing access to the latest models for quick answers and high-quality image creation and access to Copilot for Microsoft 365 personal and family subscribers. Now on to gaming. This quarter we set all-time records for monthly active users in Xbox PC, as well as mobile, where we now have over 200 million monthly active users alone, inclusive of Activision Blizzard King.

With our acquisition, we have added hundreds of millions of gamers to our ecosystem as we execute on our ambition to reach more gamers on more platforms. With cloud gaming, we continue to innovate to offer players more ways to experience the games they love where and when and how they want. Hours streamed increased 44% year over year. Great content is key to our growth and across our portfolio.

I've never been more excited about our lineup of upcoming games. Earlier this month, we shared exciting new first-party titles coming this year to Xbox PC and Game Pass, including Indiana Jones, and we've also announced launching significant updates this calendar year to many of our most durable franchises which brings in millions of players each month, including Call of Duty, Elder Scrolls Online, and Starfield. In closing, we are looking forward to how AI-driven transformation will benefit people and organizations in 2024. With that, I'll hand it over to Amy.

Amy Hood -- Chief Financial Officer

Thank you, Satya, and good afternoon, everyone. This quarter, revenue was $62 billion, up 18% and 16% in constant currency. When adjusted for the prior year's Q2 charge, operating income increased 25% and 23% in constant currency, and earnings per share was $2.93, which increased 26% and 23% in constant currency. Results exceeded expectations and we delivered another quarter of double-digit top and bottom-line growth.

Strong execution by our sales teams and partners drove share gains again this quarter across many of our businesses, as Satya referenced. In our commercial business, strong demand for our Microsoft cloud offerings, including AI services, drove better-than-expected growth and large long-term Azure contracts. Microsoft 365 suite strength contributed to ARPU expansion for our office commercial business, while new business growth continued to be moderated for stand-alone products sold outside the Microsoft 365 suite. Commercial bookings were ahead of expectations and increased 17% and 9% in constant currency on a low expiry base.

The strength in long-term Azure contracts mentioned earlier, along with strong execution across our core annuity sales motions, including healthy renewals drove our results. Commercial remaining performance obligation increased 17% and 16% in constant currency to $222 billion, roughly 45% will be recognized in revenue in the next 12 months, up 15% year over year. The remaining portion recognized beyond the next 12 months increased 19%. And this quarter, our annuity mix was 96%.

In our consumer business, the PC and advertising markets were generally in line with our expectations. PC market volumes continued to stabilize at pre-pandemic levels. I mean, the gaming console market was a bit smaller. As a reminder, my Q2 commentary includes the net impact of Activision from the date of acquisition, inclusive of purchase accounting, integration, and transaction-related expenses.

The net impact includes adjusting for the movement of Activision content from our prior relationship as a third-party partner to first party. At a company level, Activision contributed approximately 4 points to revenue growth, was a 2-point drag on adjusted operating income growth, and a negative $0.5 impact to earnings per share. This impact includes $1.1 billion from purchase accounting adjustments, integration, and transaction-related costs, such as severance-related charges related to last week's announcement. FX was roughly in line with our expectations on total company revenue, segment-level revenue, COGS, and operating expense growth.

Microsoft Cloud revenue was $33.7 billion, ahead of expectations, and grew 24% and 22% in constant currency. Microsoft Cloud gross margin percentage was 72%, relatively unchanged year over year. Excluding the impact of the change in accounting estimate for useful lives, gross margin percentage increased roughly 1 point, driven by improvement in Azure and Office 365, partially offset by the impact of scaling our AI infrastructure to meet growing demand. Company gross margin dollars increased 20% and 18% in constant-currency and gross margin percentage increased year over year to 68%.

Excluding the impact of the change in accounting estimate, gross margin percentage increased roughly 2 points, even with the impact of $581 million from purchase accounting adjustments, integration, and transaction-related costs from the Activision acquisition. Growth was driven by improvement in devices, as well as the improvement in Azure and Office 365 as just mentioned. Operating expenses increased 3% with 11 points from the Activision acquisition, partially offset by 7 points of favorable impact from the prior-year Q2 charge. The Activision impact includes $550 million from purchase accounting adjustments, integration, and transaction-related cost.

At a company level, headcount at the end of December was 2% lower than a year ago. Operating margins increased roughly 5 points year over year to 44%. Excluding the impact of the change in accounting estimate, operating margins increased roughly 6 points driven by the higher gross margin noted earlier, the favorable impact from the prior-year Q2 charge, and improved operating leverage through disciplined cost control. Now, to our segment results.

Revenue from productivity and business processes was $19.2 billion and grew 13% and 12% in constant currency, ahead of expectations, primarily driven by better-than-expected results in LinkedIn. Office commercial revenue grew 15% and 13% in constant currency. Office 365 commercial revenue increased 17% and 16% in constant currency, in line with expectations, driven by healthy renewal execution and ARPU growth from continued E5 momentum. Paid Office 365 commercial seats grew 9% year over year to over $400 million with installed base expansion across all customer segments.

Seat growth was again driven by our small and medium business and frontline worker offerings, offset by the continued growth trends in new stand-alone business noted earlier. Office commercial licensing declined 17% and 18% in constant currency with continued customer shift to cloud offerings. Office consumer revenue increased 5% and 4% in constant currency with continued momentum in Microsoft 355 subscriptions, which grew 16% to 78.4 million. LinkedIn revenue increased 9% and 8% in constant currency, ahead of expectations, driven by slightly better-than-expected performance across all businesses.

In our Talent Solutions business bookings growth was again impacted by weaker hiring environment in key verticals. Dynamics revenue grew 21% and 19% in constant currency, driven by Dynamics 365, which grew 27% and 24% in constant currency with continued growth across all workloads. Bookings growth was impacted by weaker new business, primarily in Dynamics 365 ERP and CRM workloads. Segment gross margin dollars increased 14% and 12% in constant currency and gross margin percentage increased slightly year over year.

Excluding the impact of the change in accounting estimate, gross margin percentage increased roughly 1 point, primarily driven by improvement in Office 365. Operating expenses decreased 5% and 6% in constant currency with 5 points of favorable impact from the prior-year Q2 charge. Operating income increased 26% and 24% in constant currency. Next, the Intelligent Cloud segment revenue was $25.9 billion, increasing 20% and 19% in constant currency, ahead of expectations, with better-than-expected results across all businesses.

Overall server products and cloud services revenue grew 22% and 20% in constant currency. Azure and other cloud services revenue grew 30% and 28% in constant currency, including 6 points of growth from AI services. Both AI and non-AI Azure services drove our outperformance. In our per-user business, the Enterprise Mobility and Security installed base grew 11% to over 268 million seats with continued impact from the growth trends in new stand-alone business noted earlier.

In our on-premises server business, revenue increased 3% and 2% in constant currency, ahead of expectations, driven primarily by the better-than-expected demand related to Windows Server 2012 end of support. Enterprise and partner services revenue increased 1% and was relatively unchanged in constant currency with better-than-expected performance across enterprise support services and industry solutions. Segment gross margin dollars increased 20% and 18% in constant currency, and gross margin percentage was relatively unchanged. Excluding the impact of the change in accounting estimate, gross margin percentage increased roughly 1 point, driven by the improvement in Azure noted earlier, partially offset by the impact of scaling our AI infrastructure to meet growing demand.

Operating expenses decreased 8% and 9% in constant currency with 9 points of favorable impact from the prior-year Q2 charge. Operating income grew 40% and 37% in constant currency. Now to more personal computing. Revenue was $16.9 billion, increasing 19% and 18% in constant currency, in line with expectations overall.

Growth includes 15 points of net impact from the Activision acquisition. Windows OEM revenue increased 11% year over year, ahead of expectations, driven by slightly better performance and higher monetizing consumer markets. Windows commercial products and cloud services revenue increased 9% and 7% in constant currency, below expectations primarily [Technical difficulty] period revenue recognition from the mix of contracts. Annuity billings growth remains healthy.

Devices revenue decreased 9% and 10% in constant currency, ahead of expectations due to stronger execution in the commercial segment. Search and news advertising revenue, ex TAC, increased 8% and 7% in constant currency, relatively in line with expectations, driven by higher search volume, offset by negative impact from a third-party partnership. And in gaming, revenue increased 49% and 48% in constant currency, with 44 points of net impact from the Activision acquisition. Total gaming revenue was in line with expectations of stronger-than-expected performance from Activision was offset by the weaker-than-expected console market noted earlier.

Xbox content and services revenue increased 61% and 60% in constant currency, driven by 55 points of net impact from the Activision acquisition. Xbox hardware revenue grew 3% and 1% in constant currency. Segment gross margin dollars increased 34% and 32% in constant currency with 17 points of net impact from the Activision acquisition. Gross margin percentage increased roughly 6 points year over year, driven by higher devices gross margin and sales mix shift to higher-margin businesses.

Operating expenses increased 38% with 48 points of impact from the Activision acquisition, partially offset by 6 points of favorable impact from the prior-year Q2 charge. Operating income increased 29% and 26% in constant currency. Now back to total company results. Capital expenditures, including finance leases, were $11.5 billion, lower-than-expected due to delivery for a third-party capacity contract shifting from Q2 to Q3.

Cash paid for PP&E was $9.7 billion. These data center investments support our cloud demand, inclusive of needs to scale our AI infrastructure. Cash flow from operations was $18.9 billion, up 69% driven by strong cloud billings and collections on a prior-year comparable that was impacted by lower operating income. Free cash flow was $9.1 billion, up 86% year over year, reflecting the timing of cash paid for property and equipment.

This quarter, other income and expense was in line with expectations, negative $506 million, driven by interest expense and net losses on investments, partially offset by interest income. Our effective tax rate was approximately 18%. And finally, we returned $8.4 billion to shareholders through dividends and share repurchases. Now moving to our Q3 outlook, which, unless specifically noted otherwise, is on a U.S.

dollar basis. First, FX. Based on current rates, we expect FX to increase total revenue and segment-level revenue growth by less than 1 point. And we expect no impact to COGS and operating expense growth.

In commercial bookings, strong execution across our core annuity sales motions, including healthy renewals, along with long-term Azure commitments should drive healthy growth on a growing expiry base. Microsoft Cloud gross margin percentage should decrease roughly 1 point year over year, excluding the impact from the accounting estimate change, Q3 cloud gross margin percentage will be relatively flat as improvement in Office 365 and Azure will be offset by sales mix shift to Azure, as well as the impact of scaling our AI infrastructure to meet growing demand. We expect capital expenditures to increase materially on a sequential basis, driven by investments in our cloud and AI infrastructure and the flip of a delivery date from Q2 to Q3 from a third-party provider noted earlier. As a reminder, there can be normal quarterly spend variability in the timing of our cloud infrastructure build-out.

Next to segment guidance. In productivity and business processes, we expect revenue of $19.3 billion to $19.6 billion or growth between 10% and 12%. In Office commercial revenue growth will again be driven by Office 365 with seat growth across customer segments and ARPU growth through E5. We expect Office 365 revenue growth to be approximately 15% in constant currency.

While it's early days for Microsoft 365 Copilot, we're excited by the adoption we've seen to date and continue to expect revenue to grow over time. In our on-premise business, we expect revenue to decline in the low 20s. In Office consumer, we expect revenue growth in the mid-to-high single-digits, driven by Microsoft's 365 subscriptions. For LinkedIn, we expect revenue growth in the mid-to-high single digits, driven by continued growth across all businesses.

And in Dynamics, we expect revenue growth in the mid-teens, driven by Dynamics 365. For Intelligent Cloud, we expect revenue of $26 billion to $26.3 billion or growth between 18% and 19%. Revenue will continue to be driven by Azure, which, as a reminder, can have quarterly variability, primarily from our per-user business and from in-period revenue recognition, depending on the mix of contracts. In Azure, we expect Q3 revenue growth in constant currency to remain stable to our stronger-than-expected Q2 results.

Growth will be driven by our Azure consumption business with continued strong contribution from AI. Our per-user business should see benefit from Microsoft 365 Suite momentum though we expect continued moderation in seat growth rates given the size of the installed base. In our on-premises server business, we expect revenue growth in the low-to-mid single-digits with continued hybrid demand, including licenses running in multi-cloud environments. And in the enterprise and partner services revenue should decline approximately 10% on a high prior-year comparable for enterprise support services and more personal computing, we expect revenue of $14.7 billion, $15.1 billion, or growth between 11% and 14%.

Windows OEM revenue growth should be relatively flat as PC market unit volumes continue at pre-pandemic levels. In Windows commercial products and cloud services, customer demand for Microsoft 365 and our Advanced Security Solutions should drive revenue growth in the mid-teens. As a reminder, our quarterly revenue growth can have variability, primarily from in-period revenue recognition, depending on the mix of contracts. In Devices, revenue should decline in the low-double-digits as we continue to focus on our higher-margin premium products.

Search and news advertising, ex TAC, revenue growth should be in the mid-to-high single-digits, about 8 points higher than overall search and news advertising revenue, driven by continued volume strength. And in gaming, we expect revenue growth in the low 40s, including approximately 45 points of net impact from the Activision acquisition. We expect Xbox content and services revenue growth in the low-to-mid 50s, driven by approximately 50 points of net impact from the Activision acquisition. Hardware revenue will decline year over year.

Now back to company guidance. We expect COGS between $18.6 billion to $18.8 billion, including approximately $700 million of amortization of acquired intangible assets from the Activision acquisition. We expect operating expenses of $15.8 billion to $15.9 billion, including approximately $300 million from purchase accounting, integration, and transaction-related costs from the Activision acquisition. Other income and expenses should be roughly negative $600 million as interest income will be more than offset by interest expense and other losses.

As a reminder, we are required to recognize gains or losses on our equity investments, which can increase quarterly volatility. We expect our Q3 effective tax rate to be in line with our full-year rate, which we now expect to be approximately 18%. Now, some additional thoughts on the full fiscal year. First, FX, assuming current rates remain stable, we now expect FX to increase Q4 and full-year revenue growth by less than 1 point.

We continue to expect no meaningful impact to full-year COGS or operating expense growth. Second, Activision. For the full-year FY 2024, we expect Activision to be accretive to operating income when excluding purchase accounting, integration, and transaction-related costs. At a total company level, we delivered strong results in H1, and demand for our Microsoft Cloud continues to drive the growth in our outlook for H2.

Our commitment to scaling our cloud and AI investment is guided by customer demand and a substantial market opportunity. As we scale these investments, we remain focused on driving efficiencies across every layer of our tech stack and disciplined cost management across every team. Therefore, we expect full-year operating margins to be up 1 to 2 points year over year, even as AI capital investments drive COGS growth. This operating margin expansion excludes the impact from the Activision acquisition and the headwind from the change in useful lives last year.

In closing, we are focused on execution, so our customers can realize the benefits of AI productivity gains as we invest to lead this AI platform wave. With that, let's go to Q&A, Brett.

Brett Iversen -- General Manager, Investor Relations

Thanks, Amy. We'll now move over to Q&A. [Operator instructions] Joe, can you please repeat your instructions?

Questions & Answers:

Operator

[Operator instructions] And our first question comes from the line of Mark Moerdler with Bernstein Research. Please proceed.

Mark Moerdler -- AllianceBernstein -- Analyst

Thank you very much. Congratulations on the strong quarter and thanks for letting me ask the question. Amy, you've discussed Azure being stable and you deliver Azure growth stability, but if we drill in one layer, we see Azure AI continuing to become a bigger portion of the revenue. I understand that separating what is directly AI revenue versus other IaaS, PaaS revenue that are leveraging well driven by AI is difficult, can you help me with two related questions? Optimization has been stabilizing and at some point, it should be part of the revenue flow.

How should we think about what happens then, do we see non-directly AI consumption being flattish or do we see a rebound as the cloud shift continues and the need for data of inferencing grows? Second point, on AI, where are we in the journey from training driving most of Azure AI usage to inferencing? When do you think we start to see pickup in non-Microsoft inferencing kick in, when do you think we could hit the point where inferencing is the bigger part of the driver? Thank you.

Satya Nadella -- Chief Executive Officer

You want me to go first and --

Amy Hood -- Chief Financial Officer

You go first, and I'll take the technical.

Satya Nadella -- Chief Executive Officer

Yes, let me -- just on the inferencing and training, most of what you've seen for the most part is all inferencing. So none of the large model training stuff is in any of our higher numbers at all. What small batch training, so somebody is doing fine-tuning or what have you, that will be there, but that's sort of a minor part. So most of what you see in the Azure number is broadly inferencing.

And Mark, I think it may be helpful to sort of think about, like what is the new workload in AI? The new workload in AI, obviously, in our case starts with one of the frontier -- I mean, starts with the Frontier model Azure OpenAI. But it's not just about just one model, right? So you first -- you take that model. You do RLHF. You may do some fine-tuning.

You do retrieval, which means you are sort of either heating some storage meter or you're heating some compute meters. And so to -- and by the way, you will also distill a large model to a small model, and that would be a training perhaps. But that's a small batch training that uses essentially inference infrastructure. So I think that's what's happening.

So you could even say these AI workloads themselves will have a lifecycle which is they'll get rebuilt, then there'll be continuously optimized over time. So that's sort of one side. And I think if I understand your question, what's happening with the traditional optimization, and I think last quarter we said. One, we're going to continue to have these cycles where people will build new workloads, they will optimize the workloads and then they'll start new workloads.

So I think that that's what we continue to see, but that period of massive, I'll call it, optimization only and no new workloads start, that I think has ended at this point. So what you're seeing is much more of that continuous cycle by customers, both whether it comes to AI or whether it comes to the traditional workloads.

Amy Hood -- Chief Financial Officer

No, maybe I'll just add just a few things there. I think whether you use the word lapping, these optimization comparables, or the comparables easing is all sort of the same thing, that we're getting to that point in H2. That's absolutely true. We'd like to talk about the contribution of AI, specifically for the reason Satya talked about, these are -- this is starting to see the application of AI at scale.

And we want to be able to show people this is how that point will work. It's inferencing workloads where people are expecting productivity gains, other benefits that grow revenue. And so I do think about those as those related. And ultimately, the TAM we go after is best sort of across both of those, both AI workload and I guess non-AI workload.

Although, to Satya's point, you need all of it.

Mark Moerdler -- AllianceBernstein -- Analyst

Perfect. Thank you very much for the deep answer.

Brett Iversen -- General Manager, Investor Relations

Thanks, Mark. Joe, next question, please.

Operator

Our next question comes from the line of Brent Thill with Jefferies. Please proceed.

Brent Thill -- Jefferies -- Analyst

Good afternoon. Amy, the margin improvement is pretty shocking the most considering the investments that you and Satya are putting in AI. I'm curious if you could just walk through, how this is possible and what you're seeing so far in some of the costs that you're trying to manage as you scale up AI.

Amy Hood -- Chief Financial Officer

Thanks, Brent. First of all, thanks for the question. The teams are obviously been hard at work on this topic. We do point out that in Q2 because of the impact of the charge a year ago, you're seeing larger margin improvement than I would say sort of a run-rate margin improvement.

So let me first say that. Secondly, the absolute margin improvement has also been very good and it speaks to, I think one of the things Satya talked about and I reiterated a bit, which is that we really to make sure we're making investments, we're making them and consistently across the tech stack. The tech stack we're building, no matter what team is on is inclusive of AI enablement. And so think about as building that consistency without needing to add a lot of resources to do that.

It's been a real pivot of our entire investment infrastructure to be working on this work and I think that's important because it means you're shifting to an AI-first position, not just in the language we use but in what people are working on day-to-day, that does obviously create leverage opportunity. There has also been really good work put in by many teams on improving the gross margin of the products, we talked about it was Office 365, we talked about in Azure core. We even talked about it across our devices portfolio, where we've seen material improvements over the course of the year. And so when you kind of take improvements at the gross margin level, plus this consistency of repivoting our workforce toward the AI-first work we're doing without adding material number of people to the workforce, you end up with that type of leverage.

And we still need to be investing. And so the important part, invest toward the thing that's going to shape the next decade and continue to stay focused on being able to deliver your day-to-day commitments. And so it's a great question. And hopefully, that helps piece apart a few of the components.

Brent Thill -- Jefferies -- Analyst

Thanks, Amy.

Brett Iversen -- General Manager, Investor Relations

Thanks, Brent. Joe, next question, please.

Operator

Our next question comes from the line of Kash Rangan with Goldman Sachs. Please proceed.

Kash Rangan -- Goldman Sachs -- Analyst

Hi. Thank you very much. A superb quarter of great improvements. One -- just one question for you, Satya.

Cloud computing changed the tech stack in ways that we could not imagine 10 years back, the nature of the database layer or the operating system layer, every layer just changed dramatically. How do you foresee generative AI changing the tech stack as we know it? Thank you so much.

Satya Nadella -- Chief Executive Officer

Yeah. I think it's going to have a very foundational impact. In fact, you can say the core compute architecture itself changes, everything from power, power density to the data center design, to what used to be the accelerator, now is the sort of the main CPU, so to speak, or the main compute unit. And so I think in the network, the memory architecture, all of it, so as the core computer architecture changes, I think every workload changes.

And so yes, so there is a full, like, take our data layer, the most exciting thing for me in the last year has been to see how our data layer has evolved to be built for AI, right? If you think about Fabric, one of the genius of Fabric is to be able to say, let's separate out storage from the compute layer, in compute we'll have traditional sequels that have Spark, and by the way, you can have an Azure AI job on-top of the same data lake, so to speak, or the lake house pattern. And then the business model you can combine all of those different compute. So that's the type of compute architecture. So it's sort of a -- so that's just one example.

The tool stuff is changing. Office, I mean, if you think about what -- if I look at Copilot; Copilot's extensibility with GPT, Copilot apps to the Copilot stack, that's another sort of part of what's happening to the tech stack. So yes, I mean, definitely builds. I mean.

I do believe, being in the cloud has been very helpful to build AI, but now, AI is just redefining what it means to have, what the cloud looks like, both at the infrastructure level and the app model.

Kash Rangan -- Goldman Sachs -- Analyst

Terrific. Thank you so much.

Brett Iversen -- General Manager, Investor Relations

Thanks, Kash. Joe, our next question, please.

Operator

Our next question comes from the line of Karl Keirstead with UBS. Please proceed.

Karl Keirstead -- UBS -- Analyst

Thank you. I wanted to return to AI, the 6-point AI lift to Azure is just extraordinary, but I wanted to ask you about your progress in standing up the infrastructure to meet that demand. If you feel like Microsoft is supply GPU-constrained. Is the success you've had maybe working through some of the scaling bottlenecks that some of the other cloud infrastructure providers have talked about, a little bit maybe on the infrastructure scaling front might be interesting.

Thank you.

Amy Hood -- Chief Financial Officer

Thanks, Karl. Maybe I'll start and Satya feel free to add on. I think we feel really good about where we have been in terms of adding capacity. You started to see the acceleration in our capital expense starting almost a year ago, and you've seen us scale through that process.

And that is going toward as we talked about Servers and also new data center footprints to be able to meet what we see as this demand and really changing demand as we look forward. And so I do feel like the team has done a very good job. I feel like, primarily obviously, this is being built by us, but we've also used third-party capacity to help when we could have that help us in terms of meeting customer demand. And I think looking forward, you'll tend to C&I guide toward it, accelerated capital expense to continue to be able to add capacity in the coming quarters, given what we see in terms of pipeline.

Brett Iversen -- General Manager, Investor Relations

Thanks, Karl. Joe, next question, please.

Operator

Our next question comes from the line of Brad Zelnick with Deutsche Bank. Please proceed.

Brad Zelnick -- Deutsche Bank -- Analyst

Great. Thank you so much for taking the question. The early market feedback that we're all hearing on Microsoft 365 Copilot is very powerful. Can you provide more granularity on what you're seeing in terms of adoption trends versus perhaps other new product introductions in the past, what if anything is holding it back, and how much of a priority is it to get it in the hands of customers? To what lengths might you go to incentivize just getting it out in the market? Thank you.

Satya Nadella -- Chief Executive Officer

No, thank you for the question, Brad. So a couple of things. In my comments I said increase in relation to our previous suites like, let's say, E3 or E5. Whatever two months in, it's definitely much faster than that.

And so from that perspective, it's exciting to see, I'd say, the demand signal, the deployment signal. I was looking at by tenant, even usage, it's faster than anything else because it's easier, right? I mean, it's sort of -- it shows up in your app, if you click on it, like any ribbon thing, and it becomes a daily habit. So it in fact, it reminds me a little bit of sort of the back in the day of PC adoption, right? It's kind of -- I think it first starts off with few people having access. There are many companies that are doing standard issue, right? So just like PCs became standard issue at some point after PCs being adopted by early adopters.

I think that's the cycle that at least we expect. In terms of what we're seeing, it's actually interesting, if you look at the data we have, summarization, that's what it's like, number one. Like I'm doing summarization of Teams meetings inside of Teams, during the meeting, after the meeting, Word documents summarization, I get something in email on summarizing. So summarization has become a big deal.

Drafts, right, you're drafting emails, drafting documents. So anytime you want to start something, the blank page thing goes away and you start by prompting and drafting. Chat, to me, the most powerful feature is now you have the most important database in your company, which happens to be the database of your documents and communications. It is now queryable by natural language in a powerful way, right? I can go and say, what are all the things Amy said I should be watching out for next quarter, and it will come out with great detail.

And so Chat, summarization, draft, and also, by the way, actions. One of the most used thing is here's the Word document, go complete, I mean, create a PowerPoint for me. So those are the stuff that is also beginning. So I feel like these all become -- but fundamentally, what happens is, if you remember the PC adoption cycle, what it did was work artifact and workflow changed, right? You can imagine what forecasting was before Excel and email and what it was after.

So similarly, you'll see work and workflow change as people summarize faster, draft regulatory submissions faster, chat to get knowledge from your business. And so those are the things that we are seeing as overall patterns.

Amy Hood -- Chief Financial Officer

And maybe just to add two points. One of the exciting things, as I said, for some companies, it's going to be standard issue like PC. For other companies, they may want to do a land with a smaller group, see the productivity gains, and then expand. And so being able to lift some of the seat requirements that we did earlier this month, it's really going to allow customers to be able to use that approach, too.

And the other thing I would add, we always talk about in enterprise software. You sell software, then you wait, and then it gets deployed. And then after deployment, you want to see usage. And in particular, what we've seen and you would expect this, in some ways with Copilot.

Even in the early stages, obviously, deployment happens very quickly. But really, what we're seeing is engagement grow. As to Satya's point on how you learn and your behavior changes, you see engagement grow with time. And so I think those are just to put a pin in that because it's an important dynamic when we think about the optimism you hear from us.

Brad Zelnick -- Deutsche Bank -- Analyst

Excellent. Thank you so much.

Brett Iversen -- General Manager, Investor Relations

Thanks, Brad. Joe, next question, please.

Operator

Our next question comes from the line of Mark Murphy with J.P. Morgan. Please proceed.

Mark Murphy -- JPMorgan Chase and Company -- Analyst

Yeah. Thank you very much. Is it possible to unpack the 6-point AI services tailwind, just to help us understand which elements ramped up by the 3 incremental points? For instance, is it more of the OpenAI inferencing, GitHub Copilot, other copilots, the Azure OpenAI service, third-party LLMs running on Azure? I'm just wondering, where did you see the strongest step up in that activity?

Amy Hood -- Chief Financial Officer

Mark, without getting into tons of line items, it's more simple to think of it as, really, it's people adopting it for inferencing at the API generally. I mean, that's the easiest way to think about it. And we also saw growth in GitHub Copilot which you talked -- which Satya talked about, and we saw a growing number of third parties using it in some small ways for training. But this is primarily an inferencing workload right now in terms of what's driving that number.

We used to think of it that way.

Satya Nadella -- Chief Executive Officer

Azure OpenAI and then OpenAIs on APIs on top of Azure would be the sort of the major drivers, but there is a lot of the small batch training that goes on, whether it's a graph or fine-tuning, and then lot of people who are starting to use models as a service with all the other new models, but it's predominantly Azure OpenAI today.

Mark Murphy -- JPMorgan Chase and Company -- Analyst

Thank you.

Brett Iversen -- General Manager, Investor Relations

Thanks, Mark. Joe, next question, please.

Operator

Our next question comes from the line of Brad Reback with Stifel. Please proceed.

Brad Reback -- Stifel Financial Corp. -- Analyst

Great. Thanks very much. Amy, for many, many years in commercial Office 365 seat growth has far outpaced ARPU and over the last couple of quarters, we're getting a convergence, obviously, as the seat count gets really large. As we look forward, should they run even for a period of time? Or should we expect ARPU to outpace seat growth here in the short term? Thanks.

Amy Hood -- Chief Financial Officer

That's a great question, Brad. Let me split apart the components. And then we can come back to whether they should equalize or just go on sort of a bit, actually believe it or not, somewhat independent trajectory and I will explain why I say that. Your seat growth as we talk about is primarily from, at this point, small and medium-sized businesses and really frontline workers scenarios.

And to your point on occasion, those are lower ARPU seats, but there are also -- there are new seats and so you see that in the seat count number. And as we get through and we've seen that come down a little bit quarter over quarter, and we've guided for that really to happen again next quarter. But a very separate thing is being able to add ARPU. And traditionally, and again this quarter, right, that's come over time from E3 then from E5.

And we're continuing to see very healthy seat momentum, and you heard very good renewals. So all of that, right, completely independent in some way from seat growth. Then the next thing that actually we just talked about, maybe in Brad's question, I'm trying to -- is that you're going to see Copilot revenue will run there as ARPU, right? That won't show a seat growth. So you'll have E3, E5 transition, Copilot all show up in ARPU over time, and then you'll have the seat growth be primarily still small business and frontline worker and maybe new industry scenarios.

So I tend to not really, Brad, think about them as related lines, believe it or not. I think about them as sort of unique independent motions we run, and there is still room for seat growth. And obviously, with the levers we've talked about, there's room for ARPU growth as well.

Brad Reback -- Stifel Financial Corp. -- Analyst

That's great. Thanks very much.

Brett Iversen -- General Manager, Investor Relations

Thanks, Brad. Joe, we have time for one last question.

Operator

Our last question will come from the line of Tyler Radke with Citi. Please proceed.

Tyler Radke -- Citi -- Analyst

Thanks for taking my question. Satya, your enthusiasm about GitHub Copilot was noticeable on the conference call and at the AI Summit in New York last week. I'm wondering how you're thinking about pricing. Obviously, this is driving pretty incredible breakthroughs and productivity for developers.

But how do you think about your ability to drive ARPU on the GitHub Copilot over time? And just talk us through how you're thinking about the next phase of new releases there.

Satya Nadella -- Chief Executive Officer

Yeah. I mean -- it's -- I always go back to sort of my own conviction that this generation of AI is going to be different, started with the move from 2.5 to 3 of GPT and then its use inside of developer scenario with GitHub Copilot. And so yes, I think this is the place where it's most evolved. In terms of its economic benefits or productivity benefits, and you see it.

We see it inside of Microsoft. We see it in all of the key studies we put out of customers. Everybody had talked to its pickup, but it is the one place where it's becoming standard issue for any developer is like if you take away spellcheck from Word, I'll be unemployable. And similarly, it will be like -- I think GitHub Copilot becomes core to anybody who is doing software development.

The thing that you brought up is a little bit of a continuation to how Amy talked about, right, so you are going to start seeing people think of these tools as productivity enhancers, right? I mean, if I look at it, our ARPUs have been great, but they're pretty low. Even though we've had a lot of success, it's not like we had a high-priced ARPU company. I think what you're going to start finding is, whether it's Sales Copilot or Service Copilot or GitHub Copilot or Security Copilot, they are going to fundamentally capture some of the value they drive in terms of the productivity of the opex, right? So it's like 2 points, 3 points of opex leverage would be goal is on software spend. I think that's a pretty straightforward value equation.

And so that's the first time, I mean, this is not something we've been able to make the case for before whereas now I think we have that case. Then even the horizontal copilot is what Amy was talking about, which is at the Office 365 or Microsoft 365 level, even there, you can make the same argument whatever ARPU we may even have with E5, now, you can see incrementally as a percentage of the opex, how much would you pay for a copilot to give you more time savings for example. And so yes, I think all up, I do see this as a new vector for us in what I'll call the next phase of knowledge work and frontline work, even in their productivity and how we participate. And I think GitHub Copilot, I never thought of the tools business as fundamentally participating in the operating expenses of a company's spend on, let's say, development activity and now you're seeing that transition.

It is just not tools. It's about productivity of your dev team.

Brett Iversen -- General Manager, Investor Relations

Thanks, Tyler. That wraps up the Q&A portion of today's earnings call. Thank you for joining us today, and we look forward to speaking with all of you soon.

Amy Hood -- Chief Financial Officer

Thank you.

Satya Nadella -- Chief Executive Officer

Thank you.

Operator

[Operator signoff]

Duration: 0 minutes

Call participants:
Brett Iversen -- General Manager, Investor Relations

Satya Nadella -- Chief Executive Officer

Amy Hood -- Chief Financial Officer

Mark Moerdler -- AllianceBernstein -- Analyst

Brent Thill -- Jefferies -- Analyst

Kash Rangan -- Goldman Sachs -- Analyst

Karl Keirstead -- UBS -- Analyst

Brad Zelnick -- Deutsche Bank -- Analyst

Mark Murphy -- JPMorgan Chase and Company -- Analyst

Brad Reback -- Stifel Financial Corp. -- Analyst

Tyler Radke -- Citi -- Analyst
